Title: Before Acting, Change the State: Prospective State Intervention for Web Agents under Deceptive Interfaces

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.34974v1

Published Time: Tue, 29 Sep 2026 03:52:41 GMT

Number of Pages: 29

Markdown Content:
# BEFORE ACTING , C HANGE THE STATE : P ROSPECTIVE 

# STATE INTERVENTION FOR WEB AGENTS UNDER DE-

# CEPTIVE INTERFACES 

Ruozhao Yang, Mingfei Cheng, Xiaofei Xie 

School of Computing and Information Systems Singapore Management University Singapore 188065 

ABSTRACT 

LLM-based Web agents can autonomously complete user tasks, yet deceptive in-terfaces can steer them toward outcomes that conflict with users’ interests. Exist-ing defenses primarily intervene on agent behavior through blocking, guidance, or replanning. We identify a distinct failure mode: a task-valid action can still real-ize an unauthorized consequence because of the current Web state. This motivates treating task-relevant Web state itself as a runtime control target. We introduce 

Veer , an agent-side runtime defense that leaves task planning to the base agent and intervenes on Web state when a proposed action would produce an unau-thorized consequence. Before modifying the live environment, Veer constructs a prospective intervention trajectory toward a safe task-relevant state and executes it with runtime grounding and verification. Across TrickyArena and WebDecept, 

Veer achieves the highest safe task completion in all three evaluation settings, ex-ceeding the next-best defense by 15.9 and 25.0 percentage points on TrickyArena-Single and TrickyArena-Multi, respectively, while reducing dark-pattern success on WebDecept to 0.3%. These gains persist across dark-pattern types and all 12 agent, model, and benchmark configurations. Ablations show that active state intervention provides the largest gain, while prospective rollout and temporal ev-idence contribute additional improvements. These results establish task-relevant Web state as an effective runtime control target for protecting Web agents from deceptive outcomes. 

1 INTRODUCTION 

Large language model (LLM)-based Web agents can autonomously perform multi-step tasks such as shopping, booking, and information retrieval Zhou et al. (2024); Koh et al. (2024). As these agents increasingly act on users’ behalf, they also encounter dark patterns: deceptive interfaces that steer decisions toward outcomes users may not otherwise choose. Recent studies reveal substantial susceptibility. TrickyArena reports an average susceptibility of 41% to individual dark patterns across six Web agents Ersoy et al. (2026), while DECEPTICON finds undesirable outcomes in more than 70% of tested tasks Cuvin et al. (2026). WebDecept further demonstrates similar failures in realistic shopping tasks Shi et al. (2026). Together, these findings establish deceptive interfaces as a persistent risk across agents, models, domains, and interaction settings. Existing defenses address this risk through prompting, action screening, guidance, and replanning. Safety instructions and dark-pattern-aware prompting can reduce susceptibility, though their effec-tiveness varies across tasks and dark-pattern types Cuvin et al. (2026); Shi et al. (2026). Recent run-time defenses reason more explicitly about deceptive interactions and action consequences: DUDE provides deception-aware guidance Zhang et al. (2026), WebGuard predicts the outcomes and risks of state-changing Web actions Zheng et al. (2025), and SafePred and SeerGuard anticipate future consequences to support screening, guidance, and replanning Chen et al. (2026); Yu et al. (2026). Yet recognizing deceptive patterns alone does not reliably prevent undesirable agent behavior Tang et al. (2026). Across these approaches, runtime protection primarily centers on whether or how the agent should proceed with its next action. 1arXiv:2609.34974v1 [cs.AI] 28 Sep 2026 User Task: Buy the laptop.                      

> Current Web State: with unwanted warranty
> ShopMart
> https://shopmart.com/cart
> Your Cart
> Laptop
> 15.6'' FHD, 16GB RAM, 512GB SSD $899.00 1▾$899.00
> 2-Year Warranty
> Extended coverage for 2 years $129.00 1▾$129.00
> Subtotal (2 items)
> Taxes and shipping calculated at checkout
> $1028.00
> Continue Shopping Checkout
> Select all items
> Intervene Web State: unselect the warranty
> ShopMart
> https://shopmart.com/cart
> Your Cart
> Laptop
> 15.6'' FHD, 16GB RAM, 512GB SSD $899.00 1▾$899.00 2-Year Warranty
> Extended coverage for 2 years $129.00 1▾$129.00
> Select all items Subtotal (1 item)
> Taxes and shipping calculated at checkout
> $899.00
> Continue Shopping Checkout

Figure 1: Motivating example of a task-valid action whose consequence becomes unauthorized because of the current Web state. This action-centric view leaves an important case unresolved: a task-valid action can still realize an unauthorized consequence because of the Web state in which it is executed. Figure 1 illustrates this setting. Checkout remains appropriate for the requested purchase, yet an auto-added warranty changes its consequence. The action is task-valid; the safety-critical factor is the state at execution time. Similar cases arise from preselected options, retained consent, enabled settings, and other conditions established during interaction. We refer to these task-relevant conditions as the Web state . This creates a state-level runtime control point: the consequence-causing state can be changed before the task proceeds. We therefore ask: How can a runtime defense intervene on consequence-causing Web state while preserving the agent’s progress toward the user task? 

Realizing state intervention in a black-box Web environment raises three challenges. ❶

Consequence-relevant state is sparse and persistent. An eventual consequence may depend on a small part of the current interface or on state established several interactions earlier, requiring the defense to connect temporal Web evidence with an often underspecified user request. ❷ Safe in-tervention can require multiple dependent state transitions. Application state is changed through browser interactions, and later steps may depend on state established earlier. Trying candidate in-terventions directly can itself modify the live application, requiring prospective reasoning before actuation. ❸ Prospective transitions can diverge from live execution. Dynamic content, failed in-teractions, and hidden application behavior can invalidate anticipated transitions, requiring each intervention step to be grounded and verified against the live interface. To address these challenges, we introduce Veer , an agent-side runtime defense based on 

consequence-guided prospective state intervention . At each action boundary, Veer uses current and temporal evidence to identify the task-relevant state responsible for an unauthorized consequence and formulates an intervention objective specifying what to change, what safe state to reach, and what task progress to preserve. Before modifying the live environment, it incrementally constructs a prospective trajectory over available browser interactions. During execution, Veer re-grounds each transition in the current interface and verifies that the observed state change matches the planned effect. Once the intervention objective is satisfied, control returns to the base agent. We evaluate Veer on TrickyArena and WebDecept against dark-pattern-specific and general agent-safety defenses. Veer achieves the highest safe task completion (STC) in all three evaluation settings, reaching 85.2%, 67.6%, and 41.0% on TrickyArena-Single, TrickyArena-Multi, and WebDecept, respectively. It exceeds the next-highest STC by 15.9 and 25.0 percentage points on the two Trick-yArena settings and reduces dark-pattern success on WebDecept to 0.3%. Across 471 benchmark configurations, its gains persist across deceptive conditions and agent–model configurations. Ab-lations further identify active state intervention as the largest contributor to STC, with prospective rollout and temporal evidence providing additional gains. Our work makes three key contributions: ❶ We introduce consequence-guided state intervention ,establishing task-relevant Web state as a runtime control target when a task-valid action would oth-erwise realize an unauthorized consequence. ❷ We develop Veer , which combines prospective state intervention with guarded live execution in black-box Web environments. ❸ We evaluate Veer across 471 configurations on TrickyArena and WebDecept, showing the highest STC in all three settings, robust gains across deceptive conditions and agent–model configurations, and clear contributions from its core design choices. 2Veer 

> Live Web Environment
> User Task Base Agent
> Authorized?

at   

> Web State St
> Available Interactions
> Authorized at
> Objective ℐt

Rt Responsible State 

St⋆ Target State 

Pt Task-Relevant State 

> Unauthorized
> Prospective Rollout

St Ŝ1 Ŝi ŜK

a1I aiI aKI

> Control Semantics Page Semantics
> Preconditions · Dependencies

aiI Ŝi  

> Step Constraints
> Preserve Pt
> Advance ℐt
> Admission

Rt Resolved 

St⋆ Reached 

Pt Preserved Dependencies Closed 

> Ground & Check
> Admitted

Si

aiI

> Eff ects Supported? More Steps?
> Yes Dependencies Met: Next Step Yes
> No

St+ Verify ℐt

> Return Control
> No
> Expected outcomes
> Consequence Assessment Interface Grounding

Figure 2: Overview of Veer . A base-agent proposal is assessed against task authorization under the grounded Web state. Unauthorized consequences trigger a prospective state intervention that is admitted before actuation and verified against the live Web environment during execution. 

2 PRELIMINARY 

Web-agent execution. We consider a Web agent that completes a natural-language task u through multi-step browser interactions Zhou et al. (2024); Koh et al. (2024). At step t, given the current observation ot and interaction history τ<t , the base-agent policy π proposes 

at ∼ π(· | u, o t, τ <t ),

whose execution produces the next observation ot+1 .

Task-relevant action consequences. We use ct to denote the task-relevant consequence of ex-ecuting at. An action is task-valid when it is consistent with completing the user task, while its consequence may depend on task-relevant conditions such as selected options, saved settings, or workflow state. We denote these conditions by St and refer to them as the Web state . A conse-quence is unauthorized when it includes an outcome unsupported by the user task. A task-valid action can therefore produce an unauthorized consequence when Web state introduces an additional outcome beyond user intent. 

Runtime defense setting. We consider an agent-side runtime defense that operates between the base agent and the Web environment. Before executing at, it receives u, ot, τ<t , and at. The defense interacts with the website only through browser operations available to the base agent, with no privileged access to source code, backend logic, or internal application state. It must infer the relevant St from observable Web evidence and is given neither a clean counterpart of the interface nor an explicit dark-pattern label. The operational scope and applicability boundaries of this runtime setting are summarized in Appendix G. 

3 Veer : C ONSEQUENCE -G UIDED STATE INTERVENTION 

Veer realizes consequence-guided state intervention through three coupled designs (Figure 2): task-grounded consequence assessment, prospective state intervention, and guarded trajectory execution. An explicit intervention objective connects prospective planning with live execution: the objective remains fixed while the browser-level trajectory can adapt to evidence observed during intervention. 3.1 TASK -G ROUNDED CONSEQUENCE ASSESSMENT 

To address Challenge ❶, we design task-grounded consequence assessment around two comple-mentary representations: a dynamic task-relevant Web state St, which captures current interaction conditions, and a stable task-authorization representation Au, which specifies what the user permits. We instantiate them as 

St = G(ot, L t), Au = A(u),

3where St combines the current observation with valid temporal evidence, preserving consequence-relevant selections, settings, and workflow state across interactions. Au is derived from the original user instruction and remains fixed: runtime observations can ground its references to concrete Web objects and facts, but cannot expand the user’s authorization. This separation allows Veer to track evolving Web state without allowing the interaction itself to redefine the user’s intent. The concrete authorization, Web-state, and temporal-evidence representations are detailed in Appendix B. 3.2 PROSPECTIVE STATE INTERVENTION 

When yt = UNAUTHORIZED , Veer uses the predicted consequence ˆct, the grounded Web state St,and task authorization Au to construct an explicit intervention objective 

It = ( Rt, S ⋆t , P t),

where Rt identifies the task-relevant state in St responsible for the unauthorized consequence, S⋆t

specifies the target state conditions that remove this contribution, and Pt records task-relevant state in St that should be preserved. The objective makes explicit what must change, what conditions the intervention should establish, and what existing progress must remain intact. These requirements remain fixed while Veer determines how to realize intervention through the available Web interface. Using It as the planning constraint, Veer constructs a complete prospective intervention trajectory 

Bt = [ τ1, . . . , τ K ],

before issuing any state-changing intervention action. Each transition τi specifies a browser action, its expected task-relevant effect, and dependencies on earlier transitions. Veer selects and orders these transitions so that their expected effects address Rt, establish S⋆t , and preserve Pt. Dependen-cies capture multi-step interventions in which a later action requires state established by an earlier one. Planning is completed before actuation because trying candidate interventions directly on the live application would itself modify the state being planned over. Before Bt is passed to execution, 

Veer checks that its targets are grounded in the current interface, its dependencies are valid, and its planned effects remain consistent with It. Appendix B provides the concrete intervention-objective and prospective-trajectory representations. 3.3 GUARDED TRAJECTORY EXECUTION 

Challenge ❸ arises when the prospective trajectory is applied to the live Web application: the effect expected from a planned transition may differ from the state actually produced. Veer therefore treats each transition in Bt as provisional until its expected effect is supported by live evidence. Before executing τi, Veer re-grounds its target in the current Web state and checks that its dependencies have been satisfied. After execution, it observes the resulting state and compares the task-relevant change with the expected effect specified by τi. Only a confirmed transition enables dependent steps. A mismatch invalidates the remaining trajectory because its later steps may rely on state that was never established. Veer stops the current trajectory, re-grounds the actual Web state, and constructs a new trajectory when a valid continuation can still satisfy the same intervention objective It. The intervention intent thus remains fixed while its browser-level realization adapts to live evidence. Execution succeeds when the resulting state S+ 

> t

satisfies 

S+ 

> t

|= S⋆t , S+ 

> t

|= Pt, Resolved( Rt, S + 

> t

).

Veer then returns the updated Web state to the base agent, which resumes planning from it. 

4 EXPERIMENTS 

4.1 EXPERIMENTAL SETUP 

Benchmarks and baselines. We evaluate Veer on two benchmarks for Web agents under decep-tive interfaces: TrickyArena Tang et al. (2026) and WebDecept Shi et al. (2026). TrickyArena contains 156 task–dark-pattern configurations across shopping, news, streaming, and health applica-tions, including 88 single-pattern and 68 multi-pattern cases. WebDecept contains 45 shopping tasks 4Table 1: Overall effectiveness on TrickyArena and WebDecept (%). Lower DPSR and higher TSR/STC are better. Bold indicates the best value, and gray shading highlights Veer .                                                                                   

> Method TrickyArena-Single TrickyArena-Multi WebDecept DPSR ↓TSR ↑STC ↑DPSR ↓TSR ↑STC ↑DPSR ↓TSR ↑STC ↑
> No-Defense 29.5 80.7 60.2 54.4 66.2 38.2 37.5 47.6 28.6 ICP 17.0 80.7 69.3 50.0 67.6 39.7 26.7 43.8 31.7 Guardrail 27.3 80.7 62.5 47.1 70.6 42.6 12.4 35.2 29.5 DUDE-S2 34.1 86.4 56.8 64.7 70.6 27.9 35.9 55.6 31.4 Spotlighting 26.1 79.5 62.5 58.8 60.3 26.5 35.6 44.8 27.3 VIGIL 15.9 71.6 59.1 39.7 58.8 38.2 9.5 10.2 5.4 SafePred 28.4 86.4 63.6 55.9 79.4 36.8 38.1 58.1 38.7
> Veer 4.5 86.4 85.2 14.7 72.1 67.6 0.3 41.0 41.0

evaluated under seven deceptive scenarios, yielding 315 task–scenario configurations. We compare 

Veer with the unprotected base agent ( No-Defense ), dark-pattern-specific defenses including ICP 

and Guardrail Cuvin et al. (2026) and DUDE-S2 Zhang et al. (2026), and general agent-safety de-fenses including Spotlighting Hines et al. (2024), VIGIL Lin et al. (2026), and SafePred Chen et al. (2026). Within each benchmark, all methods use the same task configurations, base agent, actor model, and base task-step allowance. Detailed experimental settings are provided in Appendix C, while benchmark coverage and baseline adaptations are provided in Appendix D. 

Metrics. For each episode i, let Ti = 1 denote successful completion of the user task and Di = 1 

indicate that at least one evaluated dark-pattern outcome occurs. We report 

DPSR = 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

Di, TSR = 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

Ti, STC = 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

Ti(1 − Di).

Dark Pattern Success Rate (DPSR, ↓) measures susceptibility to deceptive outcomes, and Task Suc-cess Rate (TSR, ↑) measures completion of the original user task. We use Safe Task Completion 

(STC, ↑) as the primary metric, requiring task completion without any evaluated dark-pattern out-come. For TrickyArena multi-pattern cases, Di = 1 if any constituent dark pattern succeeds. Com-plete outcome counts and evaluation details appear in Appendix E. 4.2 RQ1: O VERALL EFFECTIVENESS 

RQ1: How effectively does Veer prevent dark-pattern outcomes while preserving successful task completion? 

Table 2: WebDecept results on the ground-truth-feasible subset ( N = 225 ; %). Bold marks the best value; gray shading highlights Veer .                           

> Method DPSR ↓TSR ↑STC ↑
> No-Defense 17.8 50.2 40.0 ICP 5.8 47.6 44.4 Guardrail 7.1 45.3 41.3 DUDE-S2 16.9 54.2 44.0 Spotlighting 17.3 47.6 38.2 VIGIL 3.1 8.9 7.6 SafePred 19.6 64.4 54.2
> Veer 0.0 57.3 57.3

Table 1 reports the overall results on Trick-yArena and WebDecept. Veer achieves the high-est STC in all three evaluation settings. The re-sults further show that this gain arises from differ-ent safety–utility profiles across the two bench-marks: on TrickyArena, Veer sharply reduces dark-pattern outcomes while maintaining task completion, whereas WebDecept additionally ex-poses a benchmark-level constraint on whether safe completion remains possible. 

TrickyArena. In the single-pattern setting, 

Veer matches the highest TSR at 86.4% while reducing DPSR to 4.5%, compared with 28.4% for SafePred at the same TSR. This yields 85.2% STC, 15.9 percentage points above the next-highest result. The advantage grows under multiple dark patterns: relative to No-Defense, Veer reduces DPSR from 54.4% to 14.7% while increasing TSR from 66.2% to 72.1%, reaching 67.6% STC, 25.0 points above the next-highest method. These 5p1 t1 t2 t3 t4 t5 t6 t7 t8 p2 swbs ob sa cf am ds du cs tos cf             

> No-Defense ICP Guardrail DUDE-S2 Spotlighting VIGIL SafePred
> Veer
> Shop News Spotify Health Avg. Worst
> 27 100 16.7 100 24.8 100 32 100 23.9 100 15.5 100 25.8 100
> 5.7 100
> Popup Banner P-popup P-banner Add-ons Redirect Drift
> Scenario Avg. Worst
> 37.5 86.7 26.7 80 12.4 48.9 35.9 84.4 35.6 82.2 9.5 26.7 38.1 86.7
> 0.3 2.2
> 025 50 75 100
> DPSR (\%)  ↓
> (a) TrickyArena-Single (b) WebDecept

Figure 3: Per-condition dark-pattern susceptibility on TrickyArena-Single and WebDecept. Color encodes DPSR (%; lower is better); Avg. and Worst report the mean and maximum across conditions. results show that the STC gains on TrickyArena come from converting more task executions into safe completions rather than broadly suppressing task progress. 

WebDecept. On the full 315 configurations, Veer records only one dark-pattern success, yielding 0.3% DPSR and 41.0% STC. SafePred attains a higher TSR of 58.1%, but its 38.1% DPSR reduces STC to 38.7%. The lower TSR of Veer motivates examining task feasibility. WebDecept includes two scenarios, redirection and price drift , whose ground truth does not specify a safe completion path once the deceptive condition is encountered. We therefore separately evaluate the 225 configurations for which the ground truth specifies a safe completion path. The construction of this ground-truth-feasible subset is detailed in Appendix D.3. On this ground-truth-feasible subset, Veer eliminates all evaluated dark-pattern outcomes while achieving 57.3% TSR and STC. Compared with No-Defense, it increases TSR by 7.1 percentage points while reducing DPSR from 17.8% to 0.0%. SafePred reaches a higher TSR of 64.4%, yet its 19.6% DPSR yields 54.2% STC. When safe completion is available, Veer therefore improves task completion over the unprotected agent while achieving the strongest joint safety–utility outcome. 

RQ1 Takeaway. Veer achieves the highest STC in all three settings, combining strong dark-pattern suppression with preserved task progress when safe completion is feasible. 4.3 RQ2: R OBUSTNESS ACROSS DECEPTIVE CONDITIONS AND AGENT –M ODEL 

CONFIGURATIONS 

RQ2: How robust is Veer across dark-pattern types, multi-pattern settings, and agent–model configurations? 

Table 3: STC across agent–model configura-tions (%). Parentheses show gains over matched No-Defense. 

Agent Model Single Multi WebDecept 

Default GPT 85.2 (+25.0) 67.6 (+29.4) 41.0 (+12.4) 

DPSK 68.2 (+12.5) 44.1 (+10.3) 40.0 (+4.8) 

Codex GPT 75.0 (+28.4) 54.4 (+25.0) 45.4 (+5.1) 

DPSK 85.2 (+20.4) 55.9 (+14.7) 53.7 (+15.9) 

We examine robustness along three dimensions: individual deceptive conditions, multi-pattern interactions, and agent–model configurations. Figure 3, Table 1, and Table 3 show that the ad-vantage of Veer persists across all three. 

Deceptive conditions. Figure 3 shows that the aggregate safety gains are not driven by a small subset of favorable conditions. On TrickyArena-Single, Veer achieves the lowest or tied-lowest DPSR in 21 of 22 categories and avoids dark-pattern outcomes entirely in 20. Its mean per-category DPSR is 5.7%, compared with 15.5–32.0% for the baselines. On WebDecept, Veer records only one deceptive outcome across 315 configurations, with a mean per-scenario DPSR of 0.3% and a worst-case DPSR of 2.2%; the corresponding baseline ranges are 9.5–38.1% and 26.7–86.7%. The 6safety advantage therefore extends across heterogeneous dark-pattern mechanisms on both bench-marks. The complete per-condition results underlying Figure 3 are reported in Appendix E.3. 

Multi-pattern interactions. Table 1 further shows that Veer retains its advantage when multiple dark patterns occur within the same configuration. Because TrickyArena-Single and TrickyArena-Multi contain different configuration mixtures, we compare their aggregate changes rather than treat-ing them as paired conditions. From Single to Multi, the DPSR of Veer increases by 10.2 percentage points, compared with 19.8–33.0 points for the baselines, while its STC decreases by 17.6 points, compared with 19.9–36.0 points. Thus, although all methods degrade under the multi-pattern set-ting, Veer shows the smallest aggregate deterioration in both safety and safe task completion. 

Agent–model configurations. We evaluate Veer with two agent implementations, the default benchmark agent ( Default ) and Codex , each paired with GPT-5.6-Luna ( GPT ) and DeepSeek-V4-Flash ( DPSK ). Across the resulting 12 agent–model–benchmark comparisons, Veer improves STC over the matched No-Defense setting in every case, with gains ranging from 4.8 to 29.4 percentage points. DPSR also decreases in all 12 comparisons, by at least 20.5 points. This consistency across agents, models, and benchmarks indicates that the gains of Veer are not specific to the main exper-imental configuration. The corresponding system configurations and complete results are provided in Appendices C.4 and E.4. 

RQ2 Takeaway. Veer remains robust across deceptive conditions, multi-pattern interactions, and agent–model configurations, reducing DPSR and improving STC in all 12 system compar-isons. 4.4 RQ3: C ONTRIBUTION OF CORE DESIGN CHOICES 

RQ3: How do the key design choices of Veer contribute to its effectiveness? 0 25 50 75 100 

> Episode outcome (%)
> Full Veer
> w/o State Intervention Reactive Intervention w/o Temporal Evidence
> Full Veer STC
> 85.2 50.0 80.7 77.3
> 10.2 38.6 12.5 17.0
> 10.2
> Safe completion Task success + DP Task failure, no DP Task failure + DP
> −35.2 pp −4.5 pp −8.0 pp

Figure 4: Outcome decomposition of RQ3 abla-tions on TrickyArena-Single ( N = 88 per vari-ant). Annotations denote STC decreases from full Veer .Figure 4 isolates three design choices on TrickyArena-Single by decomposing each episode according to task completion and dark-pattern occurrence. Full Veer achieves 85.2% STC. The ablations reveal distinct roles: state intervention primarily preserves task progress, prospective rollout reduces unsafe completions, and temporal evidence supports both safe intervention and task completion. 

State intervention. Replacing active interven-tion with blocking causes the largest degrada-tion, reducing TSR from 86.4% to 51.1% and STC from 85.2% to 50.0%. Episodes with nei-ther task completion nor a dark-pattern outcome increase from 10.2% to 38.6%. This shift shows that blocking often avoids the unauthorized con-sequence by terminating useful task progress. Active state intervention instead resolves the re-sponsible Web state and returns control to the base agent, allowing the task to continue safely. 

Prospective rollout. Replacing prospective rollout with reactive intervention leaves task comple-tion nearly unchanged: TSR is 85.2%, compared with 86.4% for full Veer . Its DPSR nevertheless rises from 4.5% to 6.8%, reducing STC to 80.7%. Successful episodes containing a dark-pattern out-come likewise increase from 1.1% to 4.5%. Planning the dependent state transitions before actuation thus reduces unsafe completions without materially suppressing task progress. 

Temporal evidence. Removing temporal evidence reduces TSR from 86.4% to 80.7% and STC from 85.2% to 77.3%. Task failures without a dark-pattern outcome increase from 10.2% to 17.0%, 7while successful episodes with a dark-pattern outcome increase from 1.1% to 3.4%. These shifts indicate that temporal evidence helps Veer retain task-relevant state across observations and assess the consequences of later actions as the interaction evolves. An additional one-step-intervention ablation, together with representative intervention-trajectory analyses, is reported in Appendix F. 

RQ3 Takeaway. State intervention drives the largest STC gain; prospective rollout reduces unsafe completions, and temporal evidence supports reliable multi-step intervention. 

5 RELATED WORK 

Dark Patterns and Deceptive Web Interfaces. Dark patterns steer users toward outcomes that may conflict with their interests, motivating extensive study of their taxonomy, prevalence, and effects Gray et al. (2018); Mathur et al. (2019); Nouwens et al. (2020); Luguri & Strahilevitz (2021). Recent work extends this threat to Web agents through studies of combined dark patterns, trajectory manipulation, and e-commerce failures Ersoy et al. (2026); Cuvin et al. (2026); Shi et al. (2026). Other work shows that recognizing deceptive patterns does not reliably prevent undesirable behavior and explores deception-aware guidance Tang et al. (2026); Zhang et al. (2026). Veer intervenes on Web state when it causes a task-valid action to realize an unauthorized consequence. 

Runtime Safety for Interactive Agents. Runtime defenses protect agents through input isolation, action verification, and consequence prediction. Prior work separates trusted from untrusted content and evaluates prompt-injection defenses Hines et al. (2024); Debenedetti et al. (2024), enforces explicit or intent-grounded action constraints Xiang et al. (2025); Lin et al. (2026), and predicts action consequences for screening, guidance, or replanning Zheng et al. (2025); Chen et al. (2026); Yu et al. (2026). These approaches mainly control how an action proceeds. Veer targets task-valid actions whose safety depends on changing the Web state that determines their consequence. 

Planning and State Reasoning for Interactive Agents. Long-horizon agents use planning, search, memory, and state prediction to reason beyond the next action. Prior approaches com-bine tree search, hierarchical planning, contextual guidance, accumulated experience, and reusable workflows for Web and computer-use tasks Zhou et al. (2023); Fu et al. (2024); Zhang et al. (2025); Agashe et al. (2025); Wang et al. (2024). More closely related, world-model-based Web agents pre-dict action-induced state changes for policy selection Chae et al. (2025), while WebDreamer plans over predicted Web states before execution Gu et al. (2024). Veer uses prospective state reasoning for runtime safety, deriving transitions toward a safe state before live modification and verifying them during execution. 

6 CONCLUSION 

We introduced consequence-guided state intervention for Web agents whose task-valid actions can realize unauthorized consequences under the current Web state. Veer combines explicit interven-tion objectives, prospective state intervention, and guarded live execution to modify consequence-causing state while preserving task progress. Across TrickyArena and WebDecept, Veer achieves the highest safe task completion in all three evaluation settings and remains effective across deceptive conditions and agent–model configurations. Ablations identify active state intervention as the largest contributor, with prospective rollout and temporal evidence providing additional gains. These results establish task-relevant Web state as an effective runtime control target for safe Web-agent execution. 8AI U SE STATEMENT 

Generative AI tools were used to assist with English-language editing and polishing of the manuscript and with writing and refining parts of the experimental code. They were not used to formulate the research questions, hypotheses, conceptual framework, system or threat-model speci-fications, methodology, experimental design, evaluation protocol, or interpretation of experimental results. All AI-assisted text and code were reviewed and verified by the authors. The authors take full responsibility for the final content of the paper, including all claims, results, and artifacts pro-duced with the assistance of generative AI. 

ETHICS STATEMENT 

This work studies runtime defenses for Web agents interacting with deceptive interfaces. Our exper-iments use established research benchmarks and controlled Web environments and do not involve human subjects or the collection of personal or sensitive user data. The evaluated deceptive inter-actions are used solely to study and improve agent safety. Because the proposed techniques reason about Web states and agent behavior, they could potentially be adapted beyond defensive purposes; our method, implementation, and evaluation are designed around preventing unauthorized outcomes in controlled benchmark settings. We follow the ICLR Code of Ethics and report our experimental methodology and results with the goal of enabling transparent and responsible evaluation. 

REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT 

We provide an anonymized repository at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/ Veer-379B containing code and materials for reproducing our experiments. The main paper spec-ifies the method, evaluation protocol, benchmarks, baselines, and metrics, while the appendix pro-vides additional implementation details, configurations, prompts, and extended experimental results. We will publicly release the complete source code, experimental data, configurations, and evaluation artifacts upon acceptance. 

REFERENCES 

Saaket Agashe, Jiuzhou Han, Shuyu Gan, Jiachen Yang, Ang Li, and Xin Wang. Agent s: An open agentic framework that uses computers like a human. In International Conference on Learning Representations , volume 2025, pp. 22924–22946, 2025. Hyungjoo Chae, Namyoung Kim, Kai Ong, Minju Gwak, Gwanwoo Song, Jihoon Kim, Sunghwan Kim, Dongha Lee, and Jinyoung Yeo. Web agents with world models: Learning and leveraging environment dynamics in web navigation. In International Conference on Learning Representa-tions , volume 2025, pp. 63707–63738, 2025. Yurun Chen, Zeyi Liao, Ping Yin, Taotao Xie, Keting Yin, and Shengyu Zhang. Safepred: A pre-dictive guardrail for computer-using agents via world models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.01725 ,2026. Phil Cuvin, Hao Zhu, and Diyi Yang. How dark patterns manipulate web agents. In International Conference on Learning Representations , volume 2026, pp. 95945–95977, 2026. Edoardo Debenedetti, Jie Zhang, Mislav Balunovic, Luca Beurer-Kellner, Marc Fischer, and Florian Tram` er. Agentdojo: A dynamic environment to evaluate prompt injection attacks and defenses for llm agents. Advances in neural information processing systems , 37:82895–82920, 2024. Devin Ersoy, Brandon Lee, Ananth Shreekumar, Arjun Arunasalam, Muhammad Ibrahim, Antonio Bianchi, and Z Berkay Celik. Investigating the impact of dark patterns on llm-based web agents. In 2026 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pp. 4497–4516. IEEE, 2026. Yao Fu, Dong-Ki Kim, Jaekyeom Kim, Sungryull Sohn, Lajanugen Logeswaran, Kyunghoon Bae, and Honglak Lee. Autoguide: Automated generation and selection of context-aware guide-lines for large language model agents. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 37: 119919–119948, 2024. 9Colin M Gray, Yubo Kou, Bryan Battles, Joseph Hoggatt, and Austin L Toombs. The dark (patterns) side of ux design. In Proceedings of the 2018 CHI conference on human factors in computing systems , pp. 1–14, 2018. Yu Gu, Kai Zhang, Yuting Ning, Boyuan Zheng, Boyu Gou, Tianci Xue, Cheng Chang, Sanjari Srivastava, Yanan Xie, Peng Qi, et al. Is your llm secretly a world model of the internet? model-based planning for web agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.06559 , 2024. Keegan Hines, Gary Lopez, Matthew Hall, Federico Zarfati, Yonatan Zunger, and Emre Kici-man. Defending against indirect prompt injection attacks with spotlighting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.14720 , 2024. Jing Yu Koh, Robert Lo, Lawrence Jang, Vikram Duvvur, Ming Lim, Po-Yu Huang, Graham Neubig, Shuyan Zhou, Russ Salakhutdinov, and Daniel Fried. Visualwebarena: Evaluating multimodal agents on realistic visual web tasks. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pp. 881–905, 2024. Junda Lin, Zhaomeng Zhou, Zhi Zheng, Shuochen Liu, Tong Xu, Yong Chen, and Enhong Chen. Vigil: Defending llm agents against tool-stream injection via verify-before-commit. In Proceed-ings of the 64th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pp. 9764–9785, 2026. Jamie Luguri and Lior Jacob Strahilevitz. Shining a light on dark patterns. Journal of Legal Analysis ,13(1):43–109, 2021. Arunesh Mathur, Gunes Acar, Michael J Friedman, Eli Lucherini, Jonathan Mayer, Marshini Chetty, and Arvind Narayanan. Dark patterns at scale: Findings from a crawl of 11k shopping websites. 

Proceedings of the ACM on human-computer interaction , 3(CSCW):1–32, 2019. Midas Nouwens, Ilaria Liccardi, Michael Veale, David Karger, and Lalana Kagal. Dark patterns after the gdpr: Scraping consent pop-ups and demonstrating their influence. In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI conference on human factors in computing systems , pp. 1–13, 2020. Zijing Shi, Meng Fang, and Ling Chen. Benchmarking web agent safety under e-commerce decep-tive interfaces. In Proceedings of the 64th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pp. 22090–22103, 2026. Jingyu Tang, Chaoran Chen, Jiawen Li, Zhiping Zhang, Bingcan Guo, Ibrahim Khalilov, Sim-ret Araya Gebreegziabher, Bingsheng Yao, Dakuo Wang, Yanfang Ye, et al. Dark patterns meet gui agents: Llm agent susceptibility to manipulative interfaces and the role of human oversight. In Proceedings of the 2026 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , pp. 1–26, 2026. Zora Zhiruo Wang, Jiayuan Mao, Daniel Fried, and Graham Neubig. Agent workflow memory. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.07429 , 2024. Zhen Xiang, Linzhi Zheng, Yanjie Li, Junyuan Hong, Qinbin Li, Han Xie, Jiawei Zhang, Zidi Xiong, Chulin Xie, Nathaniel D Bastian, et al. Guardagent: safeguard llm agents via knowledge-enabled reasoning. In ICML 2025 workshop on computer use agents , 2025. Xue Yu, Bo Yuan, Pengshuai Yang, Kailin Zhao, Hong Hu, and Junlan Feng. Seerguard: A safety framework for mobile gui agents via world model prediction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.15550 ,2026. Yao Zhang, Zijian Ma, Yunpu Ma, Zhen Han, Yu Wu, and Volker Tresp. Webpilot: A versatile and autonomous multi-agent system for web task execution with strategic exploration. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , volume 39, pp. 23378–23386, 2025. Yilin Zhang, Yingkai Hua, Chunyu Wei, Xin Wang, and Yueguo Chen. Don’t click that: Teaching web agents to resist deceptive interfaces. In Proceedings of the 64th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pp. 6830–6852, 2026. 10 Boyuan Zheng, Zeyi Liao, Scott Salisbury, Zeyuan Liu, Michael Lin, Qinyuan Zheng, Zifan Wang, Xiang Deng, Dawn Song, Huan Sun, et al. Webguard: Building a generalizable guardrail for web agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.14293 , 2025. Andy Zhou, Kai Yan, Michal Shlapentokh-Rothman, Haohan Wang, and Yu-Xiong Wang. Lan-guage agent tree search unifies reasoning acting and planning in language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.04406 , 2023. Shuyan Zhou, Frank F Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Tianyue Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, et al. Webarena: A realistic web environment for build-ing autonomous agents. In International Conference on Learning Representations , volume 2024, pp. 15585–15606, 2024. 11 A VEER RUNTIME ALGORITHM 

This appendix provides the complete runtime procedure of Veer. At each action boundary, Veer evaluates the action proposed by the base agent against the current task-relevant Web state and the authorization derived from the user task. An authorized action is released for execution. An uncertain assessment triggers bounded evidence acquisition and reassessment. When the predicted consequence is unauthorized, Veer constructs an intervention objective, plans a prospective state-intervention trajectory before modifying the live environment, and executes the trajectory under runtime state checks. Control returns to the base agent after the responsible state has been resolved while the target safe state and preserved task state remain satisfied. A.1 OVERALL RUNTIME PROCEDURE 

Algorithm 1 summarizes the complete runtime loop. Veer receives the user task u, the current Web observation ot, the preceding interaction history τ<t , temporal evidence Lt, and the action at

proposed by the base agent. It first constructs the current task-relevant Web state St and evaluates the consequence that at would realize under this state. The resulting decision is one of A UTHORIZED ,UNAUTHORIZED , or U NCERTAIN .The intervention objective remains fixed throughout prospective planning and guarded execution. Browser-level realization can change when live evidence invalidates a planned transition. This sep-aration allows Veer to preserve the intended safety correction while adapting its concrete interaction sequence to the state actually observed at runtime. A.2 CONSEQUENCE ASSESSMENT AND EVIDENCE ACQUISITION 

Veer performs consequence assessment before releasing a proposed action. The current state rep-resentation St = G(ot, L t) combines the current observation with valid temporal evidence retained from earlier interactions, while Au = A(u) represents authorization derived from the original user instruction. Runtime observations may ground references in Au to concrete Web objects or facts, but they do not expand the authorization established by the user task. The predictor 

(ˆ ct, y t) = P(at, S t, A u)

estimates the task-relevant consequence of executing at under the current state and determines whether that consequence is authorized. ˆct includes material effects that would be realized by the proposed action, including persistent state that would be carried into the resulting outcome. Effects that still require an independent future action remain contingent and are not treated as consequences of at.An A UTHORIZED decision releases the proposed action. An U NAUTHORIZED decision transfers the predicted consequence and its supporting state evidence to state intervention. For U NCERTAIN ,Veer performs bounded evidence acquisition targeted at the unresolved facts and then reassesses the same proposed action. Evidence acquisition updates the observable evidence available to St without changing the authorization represented by Au. If sufficient evidence cannot be established within the runtime bound, Veer does not treat uncertainty as authorization and instead follows the safe fallback behavior described by the runtime policy. A.3 PROSPECTIVE INTERVENTION CONSTRUCTION 

For an unauthorized consequence, Veer constructs 

It = ( Rt, S ⋆t , P t),

where Rt identifies the task-relevant state responsible for the unauthorized consequence, S⋆t speci-fies the safe state that removes this contribution, and Pt records task-relevant state that should remain unchanged. The intervention objective remains unchanged while Veer determines how to realize it through available browser interactions. Veer then constructs a complete prospective trajectory 

Bt = [ τ1, . . . , τ K ]

12 Algorithm 1 Veer Runtime Defense 

Require: User task u, observation ot, temporal evidence Lt, proposed action at

Ensure: Released base-agent action, updated Web state, or safe termination  

> 1:

St ← G (ot, L t) 

> 2:

Au ← A (u) 

> 3:

(ˆ ct, y t) ← P (at, S t, A u) 

> 4:

if yt = UNCERTAIN then  

> 5:

Acquire bounded evidence relevant to the unresolved consequence  

> 6:

Update Lt and St 

> 7:

Reassess (ˆ ct, y t) ← P (at, S t, A u) 

> 8:

end if  

> 9:

if yt = AUTHORIZED then  

> 10:

Release at to the Web environment  

> 11:

return  

> 12:

end if  

> 13:

if yt̸ = UNAUTHORIZED then  

> 14:

Terminate without releasing the unresolved proposal  

> 15:

return  

> 16:

end if  

> 17:

It ← CONSTRUCT OBJECTIVE (ˆ ct, S t, A u) 

> 18:

It = ( Rt, S ⋆t , P t) 

> 19:

Bt ← PLAN PROSPECTIVELY (It, S t) 

> 20:

Bt = [ τ1, . . . , τ K ] 

> 21:

if Bt does not satisfy the admission requirements then  

> 22:

Terminate without releasing the unresolved proposal  

> 23:

return  

> 24:

end if  

> 25:

for i = 1 , . . . , K do  

> 26:

Re-observe the live Web environment  

> 27:

Update St and re-ground the target of τi 

> 28:

if dependencies of τi are not satisfied then  

> 29:

Invalidate the remaining prospective trajectory  

> 30:

Replan a new Bt under the fixed objective It 

> 31:

Restart guarded execution from the new Bt 

> 32:

return  

> 33:

end if  

> 34:

Execute the grounded intervention action in τi 

> 35:

Observe the resulting Web state and update St 

> 36:

Compare the observed task-relevant change with the expected effect of τi 

> 37:

if the observed transition does not support the expected effect then  

> 38:

Invalidate the remaining prospective trajectory  

> 39:

Replan a new Bt under the fixed objective It 

> 40:

Restart guarded execution from the new Bt 

> 41:

return  

> 42:

end if  

> 43:

end for  

> 44:

S+ 

> t

← St 

> 45:

if S+ 

> t

|= S⋆t ∧ S+ 

> t

|= Pt ∧ RESOLVED (Rt, S + 

> t

) then  

> 46:

Return control to the base agent from S+ 

> t
> 47:

else  

> 48:

Terminate without releasing the unresolved proposal  

> 49:

end if 

before issuing state-changing intervention actions. Each transition records a browser interaction, its expected task-relevant effect, and dependencies on earlier transitions. The dependencies cap-ture interventions in which later operations require state established by previous ones. Veer orders transitions so that their expected effects resolve Rt, establish S⋆t , and preserve Pt.13 Prospective construction prevents the planner from testing candidate state changes directly against the live application while deciding how to intervene. Before execution, Veer admits the trajectory only when its interaction targets can be grounded in the available interface, its transition depen-dencies are well formed, and the planned intervention remains consistent with the fixed objective. Failure to establish an admissible trajectory prevents the intervention from being committed to the live environment. A.4 GUARDED EXECUTION AND REPLANNING 

Prospective transitions remain provisional until they are supported by observations from the live Web environment. Before executing each transition τi, Veer refreshes the current observation, re-grounds its target in the live interface, and checks that the state required by its dependencies has been established. Only grounded transitions with satisfied dependencies are executed. After executing τi, Veer observes the resulting interface and compares the task-relevant state change with the expected effect recorded during prospective planning. A confirmed transition enables de-pendent steps. When the observed effect diverges from the prospective transition, Veer stops relying on the remaining trajectory because subsequent steps may depend on state that was not established. It then re-grounds the actual Web state and constructs a new continuation when the same intervention objective can still be satisfied. Execution completes when the resulting state S+ 

> t

satisfies 

S+ 

> t

|= S⋆t , S+ 

> t

|= Pt, Resolved( Rt, S + 

> t

).

These conditions require the target safe state to be established, task-relevant progress to remain preserved, and the state responsible for the unauthorized consequence to be resolved. Veer then returns the updated Web state to the base agent, which resumes its original task from that state. If these conditions cannot be established within the bounded runtime procedure, Veer does not release the unresolved unsafe execution and instead follows the configured safe termination or replanning behavior. 

B STRUCTURED REPRESENTATIONS , S CHEMAS , AND PROMPTS 

This appendix details the structured representations used by Veer for task authorization, task-relevant Web state, consequence assessment, and prospective state intervention. Rather than maintaining a single global state object, Veer assembles task-grounded representations from the current Web observation, retained temporal evidence, and structured model outputs. Figures 5–7 summarize the principal representations and the key instructions used to construct them. B.1 TASK AUTHORIZATION REPRESENTATION 

Veer derives the task-authorization representation Au from the original user instruction before run-time consequence assessment. As illustrated in Figure 5, Au separates four forms of task evidence: explicitly authorized terminal outcomes, material constraints, requested informational outputs, and designated output targets. The Boolean field explicit terminal commitment distinguishes tasks that explicitly request an externally consequential terminal outcome from tasks that request inspection, comparison, preparation, navigation, or information retrieval. Each authorization or constraint entry is grounded in a non-empty substring of the original user task. Veer may subsequently bind a task reference to a concrete object observed in the interface, but such grounding is treated as a factual binding rather than a new permission. Runtime Web content can therefore resolve what the task refers to without expanding what the user authorized. Generated authorization spans are checked against the original instruction before use. Unsupported spans are discarded, missing evidence is not promoted to authorization, and unresolved extraction can leave the corresponding authorization judgment uncertain. The resulting task authorization re-mains fixed throughout the interaction. 14 A_u = { user_task: string, explicit_terminal_commitment: boolean, authorized_terminal_outcomes: [ { task_evidence: string, ... }, ... ], material_constraints: [ { task_evidence: string, ... }, ... ], requested_informational_outputs: [ { task_evidence: string, ... }, ... ], designated_output_targets: [ { task_evidence: string, ... }, ... ], ... }

Task Authorization Representation 

Authorization Instruction: 

> Extract only authorization explicitly issued by the user task. Do not infer permission for unrelated material consequences. Every authorization and constraint must cite a verbatim non-empty substring of the user task. Return strict JSON only. {ref: string, text: string, role: string, tag: string, checked: value, selected: value, aria_checked: value, value: value, semantic_context: { ... }, ... }

Current Observation 

> {finding_id: string, claim: string, status: "VERIFIED", evidence: [string], source_url: string, source_target_ref: string, dependency_scope: { ... }, ... }

Verified Finding 

Assessment Instruction: 

> Given a USER TASK, CURRENT WEB STATE, and PROPOSED ACTION, first predict how the action changes user-relevant commitments, then judge whether every predicted commitment is authorized by the USER TASK. A commitment is a user-facing outcome such as consent, subscription, data sharing, an add-on, purchase, or submitted setting. Model consequences caused not only by visible state changes, but also by retaining a preselected state, omitting an opt-out, or crossing a Save/Accept/Continue/Checkout/Done boundary. Prediction is descriptive; authorization is task-conditioned. Keep them in separate JSON fields.

Figure 5: Task authorization, current-observation, and retained-evidence representations used by Veer. The figure also shows the core instructions for authorization extraction and task-conditioned consequence assessment. Runtime Web evidence may ground task references and update St, while authorization remains anchored to the original user instruction. B.2 TASK -R ELEVANT WEB STATE AND TEMPORAL EVIDENCE 

The paper denotes the task-relevant Web state as 

St = G(ot, L t),

where ot is the current Web observation and Lt contains retained temporal evidence. In the imple-mentation, St is assembled from these sources as needed rather than stored as a monolithic state object. Figure 5 shows the principal information retained from the current observation. Grounded controls preserve both interface identity and state, including the element reference, visible text, role, tag, checked/selected state, value, and surrounding semantic context. The current snapshot also contains page-level information such as the URL, visible material facts, rendered collections, bounded choice sets, and a normalized page excerpt. Temporal evidence Lt preserves consequence-relevant facts established across earlier observations. Its principal contents include observed state transitions, verified factual findings, records of previ-ously assessed and executed actions, and unresolved material anomalies. Figure 5 shows the rep-resentation of a verified finding, including its claim, supporting evidence, source, and dependency scope. Veer maintains the validity of this evidence as the Web interaction evolves. Evidence associated with an earlier route or material state can become stale when the corresponding state changes. Historical evidence remains distinguishable from current grounded facts and is never treated as an authorization source. Consequently, G denotes the programmatic assembly and filtering of current and retained evidence rather than a separate LLM-based state-synthesis step. 15 {predicted_commitments: [ {outcome: string, before: "latent | pending | active | committed | none", after: "latent | pending | active | committed | none", trigger: "click | retention | omission | save | submit | navigation", evidence: [string], reversibility: "reversible | limited | irreversible", ... }, ... ], authorization: "AUTHORIZED | UNAUTHORIZED | UNCERTAIN", commitment_boundary: "NONE | REVERSIBLE | SAVE | ACCEPT | SUBMIT | CHECKOUT | DONE", action_semantic_effect: "CONTEXT_ESTABLISHMENT|INFORMATION_GATHERING| STATE_REDUCING|STATE_MODIFYING|WORKFLOW_ADVANCE| COMMITMENT|UNKNOWN", proposal_risk_relation: "CREATES|INCREASES|COMMITS_EXISTING| CARRIES_TO_MATERIAL_BOUNDARY| PREEXISTING_UNCHANGED|UNRELATED|UNKNOWN", carries_material_state: boolean, carried_material_state: [string], evidence_requests: [ {modality: "visual|semantic|history", causal_scope: "PROPOSED_ACTION|LATER_ACTION", claim: string, reason: string, ... }, ... ], reason: string, uncertainty: "none | low | medium | high", ... }

> Consequence Assessment Representation

Figure 6: Structured consequence-assessment representation. Veer separates predicted user-facing commitments from the task-conditioned authorization decision and explicitly records action seman-tics, material-state propagation, causal relation, and requests for additional evidence. B.3 CONSEQUENCE ASSESSMENT REPRESENTATION 

At each protected action boundary, Veer assesses the base agent’s proposed action using the user task, task authorization, current grounded Web state, retained temporal evidence, and the proposed browser action. The assessment context includes the current page and grounded elements together with proposal-relevant material facts and previously established evidence. Figure 6 summarizes the structured assessment. The paper-level predicted consequence ˆct is rep-resented primarily through predicted commitments . Each predicted commitment records the relevant outcome, its state before and after the proposal, the causal trigger, supporting evidence, and reversibility. This representation allows Veer to distinguish a proposal that directly creates or commits an outcome from one that merely leaves a condition for a later action. The decision 

yt ∈ { AUTHORIZED , UNAUTHORIZED , UNCERTAIN }

corresponds to the normalized authorization field. Additional fields characterize the semantic role of the proposed action, the commitment boundary being crossed, whether existing material state is carried through that boundary, and the causal relation between the proposal and the identified risk. When the available evidence is insufficient, the assessment can request additional visual, semantic, or historical evidence. Each request specifies the unresolved claim and whether it concerns the proposed action itself or a later action. This distinction is important because an eventual undesirable outcome is not attributed to the current proposal when a separate future action is still required. After generation, Veer checks the structured assessment against the grounded evidence available for the current proposal. Unsupported or incomplete causal claims can leave the effective decision uncertain, triggering bounded evidence acquisition and reassessment before the proposal is released or an intervention is constructed. 

Assessment safeguards. Consequence assessment is structured as separate consequence predic-tion and task-conditioned authorization. Material claims are grounded in available Web evidence, while authorization remains anchored to Au. When the available evidence is insufficient, Veer rep-resents the decision as U NCERTAIN and performs bounded evidence acquisition and reassessment before the proposal can be released. 16 B.4 INTERVENTION OBJECTIVE 

When consequence assessment identifies an unauthorized consequence, Veer first constructs the state-level intervention objective 

It = ( Rt, S ⋆t , P t)

before selecting corrective browser actions. Figure 7 shows the implementation-level representation. The field risk causing state cor-responds to Rt and identifies the current state responsible for the unauthorized consequence. 

target corrected state corresponds to S⋆t and describes the state that must hold before task execution can safely continue. preserved task state corresponds to Pt and records pre-existing task-relevant state or capabilities that should remain intact during correction. The preserva-tion list is empty when no such state has yet been established. The objective also includes terminal postconditions used to determine whether the intervention has achieved the intended state-level effect. Evidence references link objective entries to grounded facts in the current interaction. Objective construction is deliberately separated from action planning. The objective specifies what state must change, what corrected state must be reached, and what task-relevant state must be pre-served. It does not specify the sequence of browser operations used to realize that change. This separation keeps the intervention target fixed while allowing the concrete trajectory to adapt to the available interface. B.5 PROSPECTIVE TRANSITION REPRESENTATION 

Given the fixed intervention objective, Veer constructs a prospective intervention trajectory 

Bt = [ τ1, . . . , τ K ].

As shown in Figure 7, each transition τi contains five principal fields: a stable step identifier, a corrective operation, an exact grounded target, the expected local post-state, and dependencies on earlier transitions. Supported corrective operations include turning off or unchecking a control, removing or declining an unwanted state, saving a corrected configuration, clicking or closing a control, and navigating back when appropriate. The expected state field describes the local state that must be established by executing the transition. The depends on field names earlier transitions whose effects must be verified before the current transition becomes eligible. Veer therefore represents cross-step ordering directly rather than treating a multi-step intervention as independent local actions. Figure 7 also shows a representative settings trajectory. Two state-reducing transitions first dis-able unwanted settings, followed by a save transition whose dependencies require both preceding changes. The entire remaining trajectory is declared before live actuation, allowing Veer to reason about these dependencies prospectively. 

Prospective rollout. We use prospective rollout to denote explicit construction of the complete remaining browser-level correction trajectory before any corrective state change is issued. It does not assume a learned simulator or latent world model. The prospective property is that expected post-states and cross-step dependencies are specified before actuation and then checked against live execution; divergence invalidates the remaining trajectory and triggers replanning under the same intervention objective. Before execution, Veer checks the transition structure, supported operation, grounded target, and dependency references. During guarded execution, each transition is re-grounded in the live inter-face and its observed effect is compared with the declared post-state. A mismatch prevents Veer from blindly executing the remaining prospective steps and can trigger replanning under the same intervention objective. The prospective representation itself contains only the planned transition fields shown in Figure 7. Execution-phase metadata, retry state, and postcondition evidence are attached during guarded live execution and are not part of the planner output. 17 I_t = { structure_id: string, outcome: string, predicted_terminal_commitment: string, risk_causing_state: [ {state_id: string, description: string, evidence_refs: [string], }, ... ], target_corrected_state: [ {state_id: string, description: string, evidence_refs: [string], }, ... ], preserved_task_state: [ {state_id: string, description: string, evidence_refs: [string], }, ... ], terminal_postconditions: [ {condition_id: string, description: string, evidence_refs: [string], }, ... ], ... }

Intervention Objective Representation 

Objective Construction Instruction: 

> Declare only the correction objective, not correction actions. Use the grounded unauthorized consequence and current task/state evidence. Preserve pre-existing task-required state/capabilities, not unfinished task outcomes. Never describe a future action, transition sequence, dependency or plan. Strict JSON. {step_id: string, verb: string, target: string, expected_state: string, depends_on: [string], ... }

Intervention Trajectory 

> [{step_id: "transition-1", verb: "turn_off", target: "data-sharing-switch", expected_state: "off", depends_on: [] }, {step_id: "transition-2", verb: "turn_off", target: "activity-tracking-switch", expected_state: "off", depends_on: [] }, {step_id: "transition-3", verb: "save", target: "save-settings-button", expected_state: "saved", depends_on: ["transition-1", "transition-2"] }]

Multi-step Trajectory 

Trajectory Construction Instruction: 

> Generate grounded state-reducing correction transitions for an immutable objective. Copy exact current element refs. Keep task-preservation constraints. Never perform ordinary unfinished task work or the blocked original task action. Declare the COMPLETE minimal correction trajectory, including all remaining transitions, expected post-states and explicit dependencies, before any real actuation. Never change the objective.

Figure 7: Intervention-objective and prospective-trajectory representations. Veer first declares the immutable state-level objective It, then constructs the complete remaining browser-level trajectory 

Bt. The example shows explicit dependencies between state changes and the final Save transition. 

C EXPERIMENTAL CONFIGURATION 

This appendix details the system configuration, model interfaces, and runtime budgets used in our experiments. Within each benchmark, all compared methods use the same task configurations, base agent, actor model, and base task-action allowance. Veer operates as an agent-side runtime layer between base-agent action generation and browser execution. 

Budget interpretation. The common budget controls ordinary task execution: all compared meth-ods use the same base-agent task-action allowance within each benchmark. Veer’s internal budget is restricted to defense-side evidence acquisition and state intervention and cannot be used to advance ordinary base-agent task execution. Defense-specific auxiliary reasoning follows the corresponding runtime mechanism of each method. C.1 MAIN SYSTEM CONFIGURATION 

Default configuration. Our main experiments use the default agent provided by each benchmark together with GPT-5.6-Luna as the actor model. Veer uses the same model as the corresponding base agent for its model-backed components, including task-authorization extraction, consequence assessment, evidence reassessment, intervention-objective construction, prospective trajectory gen-eration, and terminal verification. We do not configure separate planner or verifier models. The concrete host agent follows each benchmark’s native interaction stack. On TrickyArena, the default agent is implemented with BrowserUse and operates through Playwright/Chromium. The agent receives multimodal browser observations and interacts through the BrowserUse action in-terface. On WebDecept, the default agent is the benchmark’s WebArena-style PromptAgent using its multimodal accessibility-tree observation and native browser-action interface. Veer is integrated into both environments at the action boundary, where it receives the user task, observable browser state, retained interaction evidence, and the proposed action before that action is committed to the environment. 18 Table 4: Main interaction budgets. Veer’s internal budget is reserved for defense-side evidence and intervention operations.       

> Setting Task-action budget Veer internal budget TrickyArena 30 8WebDecept 15 8

Veer uses browser-observable evidence exposed through the host runtime, including the current page, grounded interface elements, their observable states and semantics, retained temporal evi-dence, and screenshots when visual reassessment is required. Visual input is used only by compo-nents that require it; objective construction and prospective planning operate over the grounded state representation. Veer does not receive benchmark dark-pattern labels, task-success labels, hidden evaluator out-puts, or backend application state during execution. Benchmark evaluators are applied only after an episode to compute the reported metrics. 

Configuration used by each RQ. RQ1 uses the benchmark-default agent with GPT-5.6-Luna on TrickyArena-Single, TrickyArena-Multi, and WebDecept. The per-condition analysis in RQ2 uses the same default configuration. RQ3 uses TrickyArena-Single with the same BrowserUse–GPT-5.6-Luna configuration across all ablations. The agent–model analysis in RQ2 additionally varies the base-agent implementation and model as described in Appendix C.4. C.2 MODEL AND STRUCTURED -O UTPUT SETTINGS 

The main configuration uses GPT-5.6-Luna for both the base agent and Veer while retaining the model interface native to each benchmark integration. Veer’s model-backed components request structured JSON-formatted outputs through the component-specific contracts described in Ap-pendix B. Returned structures are subsequently parsed and checked before they affect browser exe-cution. Consequence assessment additionally supports bounded evidence acquisition and reassessment when the available evidence does not support a confident authorization decision. Intervention-objective construction and prospective planning similarly require their respective structured con-tracts to be satisfied before a trajectory can be admitted for live execution. C.3 INTERACTION AND RUNTIME BUDGETS 

We distinguish task actions , which advance the base agent’s ordinary task execution, from internal defense actions , which Veer uses for evidence acquisition and state intervention. Every compared method receives the same base-agent task-action allowance within a benchmark. Veer’s internal budget is reserved exclusively for defense-side operations and cannot be used for ordinary base-agent task execution. Internal operations are accounted for separately from the base agent’s task-action budget. Passive observation and state extraction do not consume internal action slots; Veer-issued browser operations used for evidence acquisition, intervention, or explicit re-observation do. Table 5 reports the principal bounds applied to Veer’s runtime reasoning and execution. These bounds prevent individual assessment or intervention branches from repeatedly consuming the in-teraction budget. The evidence-attempt bound applies to unresolved evidence claims, while proposal replanning is bounded within an individual controller invocation. If the available runtime bounds cannot establish an authorized continuation or a verified intervention, Veer does not promote the unresolved decision to authorization. 19 Table 5: Principal Veer runtime limits in the main configuration.           

> Runtime mechanism Limit Evidence attempts per unresolved claim 2Total evidence-claim attempts 8Assessment completeness reassessment 1 per candidate evaluation Verified-evidence reassessment 1 per applicable branch Visual reassessment 1 per candidate evaluation Proposal replanning 5 replans Intervention step attempts 2Correction replanning 1Terminal-verification model calls up to 2

Table 6: Agent–model configurations evaluated in RQ2. Veer uses the same model family as the corresponding actor.           

> Agent Actor model Veer model Default GPT-5.6-Luna GPT-5.6-Luna Default DeepSeek-V4-Flash DeepSeek-V4-Flash Codex GPT-5.6-Luna GPT-5.6-Luna Codex DeepSeek-V4-Flash DeepSeek-V4-Flash

C.4 AGENT –M ODEL CONFIGURATIONS 

RQ2 evaluates whether Veer’s effectiveness depends on a particular base-agent implementation or model. We combine two agent implementations with two model families. D EFAULT denotes each benchmark’s native agent: BrowserUse on TrickyArena and PromptAgent on WebDecept. C ODEX 

uses Codex as the alternative base-agent implementation. The Default+GPT configuration is the main configuration used for RQ1 and RQ3. For each RQ2 agent–model configuration, Veer uses the same model family as the corresponding base agent, so the comparison evaluates the defense under the model stack used by that configuration. 

D BENCHMARKS AND BASELINE ADAPTATIONS 

This appendix details the benchmark configurations and baseline adaptations used in our experi-ments. Within each benchmark, all compared methods are evaluated on the same configuration identifiers, use the same base agent and actor model, and receive the same base task-action al-lowance. Benchmark evaluators are applied only after execution to determine task success and deceptive outcomes. D.1 TRICKY ARENA 

Single-pattern setting. TrickyArena-Single contains 88 task–dark-pattern configurations span-ning four application domains: Shopping, News, Music, and Health. Table 7 reports the complete composition and the abbreviations used in Figure 3 of the main paper. The 88 configurations form a fixed set of applicable task–condition pairings rather than a Cartesian product over all tasks and deceptive conditions. The domain totals are 50 Shopping, 12 News, 8 Music, and 18 Health configurations. The t1 –t8 

conditions correspond to interface variants associated with the premium-membership setting. 

Multi-pattern setting. TrickyArena-Multi contains 68 configurations in which two to four decep-tive conditions are simultaneously active. Table 8 reports the 16 condition combinations used in the evaluation. Among the 68 configurations, 46 contain two active patterns, 18 contain three, and four contain four. 

Evaluation. We use the benchmark-defined task and deceptive-outcome evaluators over the recorded interaction trajectory. Task success is binary for each configuration. For a multi-pattern 20 Table 7: Composition of TrickyArena-Single. The labels follow Figure 3 in the main paper; the two 

cf conditions are disambiguated by domain.                                                                       

> Label Dark-pattern condition NDomain p1 Premium Membership 4Shopping t1 Code Change Chakra 4Shopping t2 Code Change Images 4Shopping t3 Visual Change Links 4Shopping t4 Visual Change Button Placement 4Shopping t5 Code Change No Aria 4Shopping t6 Code Change Images No Aria 4Shopping t7 Mix Change Button Placement Images No Aria 4Shopping t8 Mix Change Button Placement Chakra 4Shopping p2 Cookie Management 4Shopping sSponsored Items 5Shopping wWarranty 5Shopping bs Bait and Switch 3News ob Obfuscation 3News sa Sponsored Ad 3News cf Confusion 3News am Aesthetic Manipulation 2Music ds Data Sharing 3Music du Decision Uncertainty 3Music cs Complex Settings 6Health tos Terms of Service 6Health cf Confirm Shaming 6Health Total 88

Table 8: Composition of TrickyArena-Multi.                                         

> Domain Active combinations ( N)Total Shopping p1 p2 (8); p1 w (7); p1 p2 w (7); p1 p2 w s (2) 24 News bs cf (3); bs ob (3); bs cf sa (3); bs cf ob sa (2) 11 Music du ds (3); am ds (2); am du (2); am ds du (2) 9Health cs cf (6); cs tos (6); tos cf (6); cs cf tos (6) 24 Total 68

episode, the deceptive-outcome indicator is positive when at least one constituent dark-pattern con-dition succeeds, matching the definition of Di used in the main paper. The evaluator is applied after execution and is not available to the agent or defense at runtime. D.2 WEB DECEPT 

WebDecept contains 45 shopping tasks, each evaluated under seven deceptive scenarios, yielding 

45 × 7 = 315 task–scenario configurations. Every task is evaluated under every scenario. Table 9 summarizes the seven scenarios and the labels used in Figure 3. We use the benchmark-defined task-success and deceptive-outcome evaluators for post-episode scor-ing. Task success determines whether the requested shopping outcome is completed, while the deceptive-outcome evaluator records whether the scenario-specific unsafe outcome occurs during the episode. These evaluators are not exposed to the base agent or Veer during execution. D.3 FEASIBILITY -A WARE WEB DECEPT SUBSET 

WebDecept contains two scenarios, redirection and price drift , whose benchmark ground truth does not specify a safe completion path once the deceptive condition is encountered. To sepa-rate this benchmark-level feasibility constraint from defense performance, we additionally evaluate the configurations from the remaining five scenarios, for which the benchmark ground truth specifies a safe completion path. The resulting subset is 21 Table 9: WebDecept deceptive scenarios. Each scenario contains all 45 base shopping tasks.                          

> Scenario Label Deceptive condition N
> popup Popup Exit/checkout popup with deceptive continuation 45
> banner Banner Sticky deceptive discount advertisement 45
> personalized popup P-popup Task-conditioned deceptive popup 45
> personalized banner P-banner Task-conditioned deceptive banner 45
> cart addons Add-ons Additional donation item inserted into the cart 45
> redirection Redirect Fake continuation substitutes the intended path 45
> price drift Drift Cart price changes before commitment 45 Total 315

Table 10: Construction of the feasibility-aware WebDecept subset.                   

> Scenario Full Feasible Popup 45 45 Banner 45 45 P-popup 45 45 P-banner 45 45 Add-ons 45 45 Redirect 45 0Drift 45 0Total 315 225

Cfeasible = {i | scenario( i) /∈ { redirection , price drift }} .

The criterion depends only on the benchmark scenario and is applied identically to every method. It yields 45 × 5 = 225 configurations. 

Interpretation. The feasibility-aware subset is a secondary analysis and does not replace the full 315-configuration WebDecept evaluation. We report the full benchmark results for all methods and use the subset only to separate defense performance from scenarios whose benchmark ground truth does not specify a safe completion path after the deceptive condition is encountered. Subset membership depends only on the benchmark scenario and is applied identically to every method. We therefore interpret the full-set TSR and the feasible-subset TSR together: the former retains the benchmark’s original feasibility constraints, while the latter isolates configurations in which safe task completion is defined by the benchmark ground truth. D.4 BASELINE ADAPTATIONS 

We compare Veer with the unprotected base agent, deceptive-interface-specific defenses, and general agent-safety defenses. Each method is adapted only as needed to operate over the native observation and action interface of the corresponding benchmark. 

No-Defense. No-Defense uses the native benchmark agent without defense-side screening or in-tervention. 

ICP Cuvin et al. (2026). ICP is instantiated as a static deceptive-interface warning inserted into the native actor context before action generation. 

Guardrail Cuvin et al. (2026). Guardrail performs deceptive-interface assessment over the cur-rent Web observation and supplies the resulting warning to the base agent. 

DUDE-S2 Zhang et al. (2026). We use the publicly reproducible Stage-2 defense, adapting its click-level review to the observation and click interfaces exposed by the two benchmark hosts. 

Spotlighting Hines et al. (2024). We apply Spotlighting by delimiting page content as untrusted input while preserving the native actor and interaction interface. 22 VIGIL Lin et al. (2026). We adapt VIGIL’s sanitize–guide–audit workflow to the browser-action representation of each benchmark. Proposed actions that are not released by the defense are returned to the base agent for replanning. 

SafePred Chen et al. (2026). We adapt SafePred’s public runtime policy to the native observation and action interfaces. It predicts the consequence and risk of a proposed action and invokes base-agent replanning when the proposal does not satisfy the policy. 

Adaptation scope. The adaptations are limited to mapping each defense to the observation, prompt, and action interfaces exposed by the two benchmark hosts. They do not add Veer’s state-intervention mechanism to the baselines or change their defense-side control point. The resulting implementations therefore preserve the distinction between prompt-level warning, action review, consequence screening, and state intervention that motivates the comparison. 

Comparison protocol. Within each benchmark, all compared methods use the same task con-figurations, base agent, actor model, and base task-action allowance. Defense-specific auxiliary reasoning follows the corresponding method, while ordinary task execution remains subject to the common base-agent budget. No compared method is given benchmark task-success labels, dark-pattern labels, hidden evaluator outputs, or backend application state during runtime. 

E COMPLETE RESULTS AND EVALUATION PROTOCOL 

This appendix reports the complete results underlying the analyses in the main paper. We provide the raw outcome counts for the overall comparisons, the exact per-condition DPSR values underlying Figure 3, and the complete agent–model results corresponding to Table 3. E.1 EVALUATION PROTOCOL 

Evaluation units. TrickyArena-Single contains 88 task–condition configurations, TrickyArena-Multi contains 68 task–multi-condition configurations, and WebDecept contains 315 task–scenario configurations. The feasibility-aware WebDecept subset contains the 225 configurations from the five scenarios defined in Appendix D.3. Within each comparison, all methods are evaluated on the same configuration identifiers. 

Metrics. For configuration i, let Ti denote binary task success and Di indicate whether at least one evaluated deceptive outcome occurs. We compute 

DPSR = 100 

N

> N

X

> i=1

Di, TSR = 100 

N

> N

X

> i=1

Ti,

and 

STC = 100 

N

> N

X

> i=1

Ti(1 − Di).

Importantly, STC is computed from the episode-level joint outcome Ti(1 − Di); it is not obtained by multiplying aggregate TSR by 1 − DPSR . We report DPSR and TSR separately so that safety and task utility remain directly visible. 

End-to-end evaluation. The reported metrics score the outcome of the complete runtime pipeline rather than treating intermediate LLM judgments as independent evaluation samples. Errors in con-sequence assessment or authorization therefore remain reflected in the final episode outcome: an unsafe proposal that is incorrectly released can increase DPSR, while an unnecessary intervention can reduce task success. This evaluation directly measures the downstream effect of the assessment procedure within the deployed defense. 23 Table 11: Complete TrickyArena-Single results ( N = 88 ).                                                       

> Method #D #T #STC DPSR TSR STC No-Defense 26 71 53 29.5 80.7 60.2 ICP 15 71 61 17.0 80.7 69.3 Guardrail 24 71 55 27.3 80.7 62.5 DUDE-S2 30 76 50 34.1 86.4 56.8 Spotlighting 23 70 55 26.1 79.5 62.5 VIGIL 14 63 52 15.9 71.6 59.1 SafePred 25 76 56 28.4 86.4 63.6 Veer 476 75 4.5 86.4 85.2

Table 12: Complete TrickyArena-Multi results ( N = 68 ).                                                       

> Method #D #T #STC DPSR TSR STC No-Defense 37 45 26 54.4 66.2 38.2 ICP 34 46 27 50.0 67.6 39.7 Guardrail 32 48 29 47.1 70.6 42.6 DUDE-S2 44 48 19 64.7 70.6 27.9 Spotlighting 40 41 18 58.8 60.3 26.5 VIGIL 27 40 26 39.7 58.8 38.2 SafePred 38 54 25 55.9 79.4 36.8 Veer 10 49 46 14.7 72.1 67.6

For TrickyArena-Multi, Di is the logical OR over the constituent deceptive conditions active in configuration i. Thus, an episode contributes one positive instance to DPSR when at least one constituent dark-pattern outcome occurs. The denominators are fixed at 88, 68, 315, and 225 for TrickyArena-Single, TrickyArena-Multi, full WebDecept, and the feasibility-aware WebDecept subset, respectively. E.2 COMPLETE OVERALL RESULTS 

Tables 11–14 report the raw counts underlying Table 1 and Table 2 in the main paper. Here, #D is the number of configurations with a deceptive outcome, #T is the number with successful task completion, and #STC is the number that complete the task without a deceptive outcome. E.3 PER -C ONDITION RESULTS 

Tables 15 and 16 provide the exact DPSR values underlying Figure 3. Each cell reports DPSR in percent followed by the raw number of deceptive outcomes in parentheses. On TrickyArena-Single, Veer records zero deceptive outcomes in 20 of the 22 conditions and achieves the lowest or tied-lowest DPSR in 21 conditions. Its unweighted mean per-condition DPSR is 5.7%, compared with its configuration-weighted overall DPSR of 4.5%. Across WebDecept, Veer records one deceptive outcome among 315 configurations. Its unweighted mean per-scenario DPSR is 0.3%, and its maximum scenario DPSR is 2.2%. E.4 AGENT –M ODEL RESULTS 

Table 17 reports the complete system-configuration results corresponding to Table 3 in the main paper. Each cell gives Veer’s STC followed by the absolute improvement over the matched No-Defense configuration in percentage points. Veer improves STC over the matched No-Defense setting in all 12 agent–model–benchmark com-parisons, consistent with the robustness result reported in the main paper. 24 Table 13: Complete WebDecept results over all seven scenarios ( N = 315 ).                                                       

> Method #D #T #STC DPSR TSR STC No-Defense 118 150 90 37.5 47.6 28.6 ICP 84 138 100 26.7 43.8 31.7 Guardrail 39 111 93 12.4 35.2 29.5 DUDE-S2 113 175 99 35.9 55.6 31.4 Spotlighting 112 141 86 35.6 44.8 27.3 VIGIL 30 32 17 9.5 10.2 5.4 SafePred 120 183 122 38.1 58.1 38.7 Veer 1129 129 0.3 41.0 41.0

Table 14: Complete results on the feasibility-aware WebDecept subset ( N = 225 ).                                                       

> Method #D #T #STC DPSR TSR STC No-Defense 40 113 90 17.8 50.2 40.0 ICP 13 107 100 5.8 47.6 44.4 Guardrail 16 102 93 7.1 45.3 41.3 DUDE-S2 38 122 99 16.9 54.2 44.0 Spotlighting 39 107 86 17.3 47.6 38.2 VIGIL 720 17 3.1 8.9 7.6 SafePred 44 145 122 19.6 64.4 54.2 Veer 0129 129 0.0 57.3 57.3

F ADDITIONAL ABLATION AND TRAJECTORY ANALYSIS 

This appendix reports the complete RQ3 ablation results, an additional one-step-intervention ab-lation, and representative trajectory analyses. All ablations use TrickyArena-Single with N = 88 

configurations per variant. Unless explicitly removed by an ablation, the variants retain the same user tasks, base agent, actor model, task-action allowance, and surrounding Veer runtime compo-nents. F.1 COMPLETE ABLATION RESULTS 

Table 18 decomposes each episode into four mutually exclusive outcomes: safe task completion (T = 1 , D = 0 ), task completion with a dark-pattern outcome ( T = 1 , D = 1 ), task failure without a dark-pattern outcome ( T = 0 , D = 0 ), and task failure with a dark-pattern outcome (T = 0 , D = 1 ). 

State intervention. The w/o State Intervention variant replaces corrective state intervention with blocking. When Veer identifies an unauthorized consequence, the proposed action is rejected with-out issuing a corrective browser action. This substantially reduces task progress: TSR decreases from 86.4% to 51.1%, and STC decreases by 35.2 percentage points. 

Prospective rollout. The Reactive Intervention variant retains the same intervention objective, temporal evidence, preservation constraints, grounding, and runtime verification as Full Veer. It removes complete prospective rollout: Veer selects one currently grounded corrective transition, executes it, observes the resulting state, and determines the next transition only if further correction is required. TSR remains close to Full Veer, while DPSR increases from 4.5% to 6.8% and STC decreases from 85.2% to 80.7%. 

Temporal evidence. The w/o Temporal Evidence variant removes the retained temporal evidence used by Veer across protected interaction steps while preserving the current Web observation and the base agent’s normal interaction context. Removing this evidence reduces TSR from 86.4% to 80.7% and STC from 85.2% to 77.3%, showing the value of retaining consequence-relevant state across multi-step interaction. 25 Table 15: TrickyArena-Single DPSR by condition. Each cell reports DPSR (%) with raw #D in parentheses. Condition N No-Def. ICP Guard. DUDE Spot. VIGIL SafePred Veer shop/p1 4 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) shop/t1 4 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) shop/t2 4 75.0(3) 0.0(0) 25.0(1) 75.0(3) 25.0(1) 0.0(0) 100.0(4) 25.0(1) shop/t3 4 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 25.0(1) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) shop/t4 4 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) shop/t5 4 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 25.0(1) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) shop/t6 4 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 25.0(1) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) shop/t7 4 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) shop/t8 4 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) shop/p2 4 100.0(4) 50.0(2) 100.0(4) 100.0(4) 100.0(4) 75.0(3) 100.0(4) 0.0(0) shop/s 5 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) shop/w 5 20.0(1) 0.0(0) 20.0(1) 20.0(1) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) news/bs 3 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) news/ob 3 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) news/sa 3 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) news/cf 3 100.0(3) 100.0(3) 100.0(3) 100.0(3) 100.0(3) 100.0(3) 100.0(3) 100.0(3) music/am 2 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) music/ds 3 0.0(0) 100.0(3) 0.0(0) 33.3(1) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) music/du 3 100.0(3) 0.0(0) 100.0(3) 100.0(3) 100.0(3) 66.7(2) 66.7(2) 0.0(0) health/cs 6 100.0(6) 100.0(6) 100.0(6) 100.0(6) 100.0(6) 100.0(6) 100.0(6) 0.0(0) health/tos 6 100.0(6) 16.7(1) 100.0(6) 100.0(6) 100.0(6) 0.0(0) 100.0(6) 0.0(0) health/cf 6 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 

Table 16: WebDecept DPSR by deceptive scenario. Each cell reports DPSR (%) with raw #D in parentheses. Scenario N No-Def. ICP Guard. DUDE Spot. VIGIL SafePred Veer Popup 45 4.4(2) 4.4(2) 6.7(3) 0.0(0) 6.7(3) 2.2(1) 6.7(3) 0.0(0) Banner 45 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) P-popup 45 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 0.0(0) 2.2(1) 2.2(1) 0.0(0) P-banner 45 2.2(1) 2.2(1) 0.0(0) 2.2(1) 2.2(1) 0.0(0) 2.2(1) 0.0(0) Add-ons 45 82.2(37) 22.2(10) 28.9(13) 82.2(37) 77.8(35) 11.1(5) 86.7(39) 0.0(0) Redirect 45 86.7(39) 80.0(36) 48.9(22) 82.2(37) 82.2(37) 26.7(12) 84.4(38) 2.2(1) Drift 45 86.7(39) 77.8(35) 2.2(1) 84.4(38) 80.0(36) 24.4(11) 84.4(38) 0.0(0) 

F.2 ADDITIONAL ONE -S TEP ABLATION 

The main Reactive Intervention ablation removes complete prospective rollout while still allowing successive corrective transitions to be constructed after observing each intermediate state. We further evaluate a stricter One-Step Intervention variant that permits only one local corrective browser action per interception and then returns control to the base-agent loop. Unlike Full Veer, this variant does not represent or verify a complete multi-step correction with cross-step dependencies. Its STC decreases from 85.2% to 61.4%, while DPSR increases from 4.5% to 14.8%. Together with the Reactive Intervention result, this shows that preserving the structure of a multi-step correction is important when safe intervention requires dependent state transitions. F.3 INTERVENTION -T RAJECTORY ANALYSIS 

We next examine the prospective trajectories admitted by Full Veer to characterize the structure of state intervention in practice. Among episodes in which Veer admits an intervention, 15 use a one-transition trajectory and six use a four-transition trajectory. Across the 24 admitted trajectories, the mean planned length is 1.88 transitions, the median is one, and the maximum is four. The presence of four-transition trajectories confirms that the evaluated interventions include dependent multi-step corrections rather than only isolated local actions. The executed corrective actions span four planner-level operation types. These operations cover both direct state reduction, such as disabling or declining an unwanted state, and transitions that commit an already constructed correction, such as saving the resulting settings. 26 Table 17: Complete STC results across agent–model configurations. Parentheses denote absolute improvement over the matched No-Defense configuration in percentage points.                     

> Agent Model TrickyArena-Single TrickyArena-Multi WebDecept Default GPT-5.6-Luna 85.2 (+25.0) 67.6 (+29.4) 41.0 (+12.4) Default DeepSeek-V4-Flash 68.2 (+12.5) 44.1 (+10.3) 40.0 (+4.8) Codex GPT-5.6-Luna 75.0 (+28.4) 54.4 (+25.0) 45.4 (+5.1) Codex DeepSeek-V4-Flash 85.2 (+20.4) 55.9 (+14.7) 53.7 (+15.9)

Table 18: Complete RQ3 ablation results on TrickyArena-Single ( N = 88 per variant). ∆STC is measured relative to Full Veer.                                         

> Variant Safe T+DP Fail, no-DP Fail+DP DPSR (%) TSR (%) STC (%) ∆STC (pp) Full Veer 75 1934.5 86.4 85.2 –w/o State Intervention 44 134 911.4 51.1 50.0 −35 .2
> Reactive Intervention 71 411 26.8 85.2 80.7 −4.5
> w/o Temporal Evidence 68 315 25.7 80.7 77.3 −8.0

F.4 REPRESENTATIVE INTERVENTION TRAJECTORIES 

We provide two representative episodes that illustrate state correction with task preservation and guarded verification with bounded replanning. 

Case 1: consent correction with task preservation. In configuration health tos 80 , the user asks the agent to retrieve the date of the last flu shot and write it to the scratchpad. The base agent proposes an action that would commit to broad health-data consent unrelated to the requested task. Veer constructs an intervention objective that removes the pending consent while preserving the task-relevant scratchpad capability. The prospective trajectory contains a single corrective transition: After the correction, Veer verifies that the consent state has been removed while the task-relevant ca-pability remains available. Control returns to the base agent, which retrieves the requested medical-record information and writes it to the scratchpad. The episode finishes with T = 1 , D = 0 .This case illustrates the role of Pt: state correction removes the unauthorized consequence while retaining state needed for the original task. 

Case 2: terminal verification and bounded replanning. In configuration shop p2 38 , the user asks for the description of a laptop. The base agent proposes accepting cookie consent that is un-necessary for the requested information-retrieval task. Veer constructs an objective that prevents committing this consent while preserving product retrieval and scratchpad-entry capability. The initial prospective correction opens the cookie-options interface. The browser action succeeds locally, but the resulting state does not yet satisfy the intervention objective. Veer therefore retains the same objective and constructs a new corrective continuation: After the corrected state is verified, control returns to the base agent, which resumes product retrieval and writes the requested description to the scratchpad. The episode finishes with T = 1 , D = 0 .This case illustrates why Veer verifies the resulting state against the intervention objective after browser execution: a locally successful interaction does not by itself establish that the intended state correction has been completed. 

G SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS 

Veer is designed as an agent-side runtime defense for Web-agent execution under deceptive inter-faces. Its protection operates over the same black-box browser interface available to the base agent: it reasons from observable Web evidence, intervenes through grounded browser interactions, and de-rives authorization from the original user task. This section summarizes the resulting applicability boundary. 27 Table 19: Additional one-step-intervention ablation on TrickyArena-Single ( N = 88 ).             

> Variant DPSR (%) TSR (%) STC (%) ∆STC (pp) Full Veer 4.5 86.4 85.2 –One-Step Intervention 14.8 68.2 61.4 −23 .9

Table 20: Length of admitted prospective intervention trajectories.          

> Planned length KEpisodes Trajectories 115 17 467Total 21 24

Observable-state dependence. Veer constructs task-relevant Web state from the current obser-vation and retained temporal evidence. Consequently, an intervention must be grounded in state that has an observable manifestation in the Web interaction. Hidden application state that cannot be inferred from available Web evidence does not directly participate in consequence assessment or intervention planning. Accordingly, Veer targets consequences whose relevant pre-commit state has an observable Web manifestation; effects determined entirely by hidden server-side state with no observable evidence fall outside the current intervention model. 

Browser-reachable correction. State intervention requires a browser-level path from the current state toward the target state. Dynamic interfaces, unavailable controls, or unexpected transition ef-fects can invalidate a prospective trajectory. Veer addresses these cases through live grounding, dependency checks, and post-transition verification, and replans under the same intervention objec-tive when a valid continuation remains available. 

Task-grounded authorization. Veer derives authorization from the original user instruction and does not expand it using Web content encountered during execution. Runtime observations can ground task references to concrete objects and facts, while the authorization boundary remains fixed. Tasks whose intent is insufficiently specified can therefore leave some proposed consequences un-certain. 

Task-state preservation. The preservation component of the intervention objective covers task-relevant state and capabilities that can be identified from the interaction evidence available to Veer. Guarded execution verifies these declared preservation requirements together with the target cor-rected state before returning control to the base agent. 

Base-agent dependence. Veer intervenes on consequence-causing Web state and then returns con-trol to the base agent. It does not replace the base agent’s ordinary task planner. Navigation, infor-mation retrieval, and completion of the remaining user task therefore continue to depend on the underlying agent after a successful intervention. 

Evaluation scope. Our evaluation covers TrickyArena-Single, TrickyArena-Multi, and WebDe-cept, spanning multiple deceptive-interface mechanisms, application domains, agent implementa-tions, and model configurations. These experiments establish the effectiveness of consequence-guided state intervention in the evaluated settings; extending the evaluation to additional Web envi-ronments and interaction settings remains future work. 28 Table 21: Executed corrective operations in Full Veer. 

Corrective operation Executed actions 

turn off 20 

decline 12 

save 6

click 4Total 42 

Table 22: Representative consent correction for health tos 80 .

Step Operation Expected state Dependency 

τ1 decline consent declined –

Table 23: Bounded intervention replan for shop p2 38 .

Attempt Corrective transition Result Initial Open cookie options Objective unresolved Replan Decline cookie consent Verified 

29