Title: Symbolic Separation: Grounding Deep Agents in Knowledge Graphs for Trustworthy Operational Data Analytics

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.17107v1

Published Time: Wed, 16 Sep 2026 01:28:52 GMT

Number of Pages: 15

Markdown Content:
> IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 1

# Symbolic Separation: Grounding Deep Agents in Knowledge Graphs for Trustworthy Operational Data Analytics 

Baibek Davletiyarov, Junaid Ahmed Khan, and Andrea Bartolini 

Abstract —Generative AI promises natural-language access to the massive numerical telemetry of data centers and Indus-try 4.0 installations, yet text-to-query and tool-using agents stay unreliable: even frontier models answer little more than half of real-world database questions, and far fewer of the multi-step, operational ones, because the LLM must compose how heterogeneous sources relate and hallucinates the relations, not just the fields. We propose symbolic separation : a deep agent reasons freely but may act on data only through an ontology-constrained Virtual Knowledge Graph with deterministic pre-execution validation. Unlike a tool API’s interface contract ,this domain-semantic contract turns a complex question into one validated graph traversal instead of LLM-inferred joins. Instantiated as the Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst and evaluated on 49.9 TB of supercomputer telemetry against a rigid-workflow and a non-symbolic ablation, it raises end-to-end task success from 43% to 86%, prevents silent data-integrity errors that no syntactic check catches, and cuts token cost by 2.4×, letting a smaller on-premise model outperform a larger one. 

Index Terms —Neurosymbolic AI, Deep Agents, Knowledge Graphs, Virtual Knowledge Graph, Ontology-Based Data Access, Ontological Constraints, LLM Agents, Model Context Protocol, Operational Data Analytics, Trustworthy AI, Hallucination Mit-igation. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

Over the last two decades, digital transformation has in-creasingly focused on instrumenting, sensing, and connecting the physical world. The Internet of Things (IoT) paradigm envisions a worldwide network of interconnected smart phys-ical entities that continuously generate large volumes of op-erational data [1]. In industrial contexts, this trajectory was consolidated under the Industry 4.0 paradigm, where cyber-physical systems, industrial IoT, and data-driven analytics became central to monitoring, understanding, and optimizing production processes [2]. As a result, the last decade has seen a shift from merely collecting industrial data to extracting actionable knowledge from large-scale, heterogeneous, and streaming data sources [3]. However, the discovery, model-ing, and optimization of complex processes have remained constrained by the complexity of data-science workflows and the availability of expert data scientists and domain specialists [4]. Extracting value from data-lakes and IoT installations traditionally imposes a three-fold barrier on the user, who must simultaneously be a domain expert, an expert in the specific 

The authors are affiliated with the DEI Department, University of Bologna, Italy. E-mails: {baibek.davletiyarov2, junaidahmed.khan, a.bartolini }@unibo.it .

monitoring deployment, and an expert in the storage backend’s query language and API. LLMs appear to be the natural interface to lower this barrier, but purely probabilistic models are unreliable on exactly the di-mensions that matter for mission-critical operations: they hal-lucinate non-existent entities and relations [5] and cannot track private, installation-specific schemas. The canonical attempt to bridge language and data – text-to-databases – remains an open problem. On BIRD, a benchmark of 12 ,751 questions over 95 

real databases, even GPT-4 reaches only 40 .08% execution accuracy against 92 .96% for human experts [6]; On dynamic, multi-turn workloads, GPT-4o achieves ( 58 .34% ) overall turn-level accuracy, but only ( 23 .81% ) under the benchmark’s stricter task-level pass@5 criterion [7]. This gap suggests that partial success on individual turns does not reliably translate into robust completion of an evolving interaction. Moreover, residual errors are predominantly semantic rather than syntac-tic: NL2SQL-BUGs catalogues (9) major categories and (31) subcategories of semantic errors in text-to-SQL generation [8]. LLMs achieve only 75.16% accuracy when auditing these logical flaws. Yet, when analyzing human-verified annotations, this auditing approach revealed that 6.91% of BIRD’s ground-truth queries contain undetected semantic errors. Therefore, overcoming the text-to-database bottleneck requires moving beyond raw execution accuracy toward frameworks capable of deep semantic verification. The difficulty is sharpest on numerical operational teleme-try : state-of-the-art timeseries data agents answer ∼73% of stateless queries but only ∼34% of stateful and ∼10% of incident (anomaly) queries, with failures dominated by schema confusion and wrong table/column selection [9]. The same pattern appears when an LLM writes analysis code directly over IoT sensor data: in a published breakdown of its fail-ures, failed data imports, mishandled datetime formats, and wrong column names together account for over 80% of the errors [10]. Three difficulties compound: (i) connecting to the data lake and writing valid queries, (ii) knowing which sensor or metric captures a given physical effect on which component, and (iii) combining multiple sources – that is, knowing and traversing the relations between the data and the observed concepts. A promising remedy is to ground generative models in 

structured knowledge [11]. Knowledge Graphs (KGs) ex-pressed in Resource Description Framework (RDF) unify het-erogeneous sources under a shared, ontology-defined schema and expose them through expressive query languages such arXiv:2609.17107v1 [cs.AI] 15 Sep 2026 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 2

as SPARQL. Our own prior work demonstrated this for data center telemetry: ExaQuery [12] introduced a domain ontology for operational data, and on top of it the EXASAGE framework [13] – which we hereafter call EXASAGE Query Tool– translated natural language queries to SPARQL resolved against a Virtual Knowledge Graph (VKG) [14]—a dynamic graph built on demand, specific to the user request—evaluated on 1K complex query randomly generated from ten archetypes. On those EXASAGE reached 93 .6% answer accuracy versus 

25% for direct LLM-to-NoSQL generation. Furthermore, by avoiding complete graph materialisation, this virtual approach entirely eliminates storage explosions while maintaining low latency. Crucially, the VKG already moved the construction of cross-source relationships upstream into a connected graph, so that a question is answered by traversing pre-existing edges rather than by the LLM inferring joins – a property we make central in this paper. Despite this accuracy, EXASAGE [13] is a rigid, single-shot workflow . Entity extraction relies on hand-written regular expressions over a fixed category set ( node , rack , job ,

metric , plugin , plus temporal markers), built around the ten query archetypes pattern only. This limits the scope of the answerable queries and prevents generalisation: a conceptual term such as “power consumption” fails to map to the right metric if it is not literally present in the plugin–metric table, and temporal phrasings such as “last 10 hours” are dropped because they do not match the expected [YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS] format. Furthermore, the workflow has no re-covery mechanism. Although a final validation step monitors the graph database endpoint for runtime execution errors, this pass only catches syntax failures that cause query execution to fail. It cannot detect semantic errors or verify ontology conformance; thus, logically flawed but syntactically correct queries execute silently and return incorrect data. Crucially, there is no loop in which the system can reflect, re-plan, or ask for clarification. Even though its accuracy surpassed direct LLM-to-NoSQL, and it is to the best of the author’s knowledge the only work in SoA targeting ontology and VKG grounding of timeseries data NL2SQL, EXASAGE [13] needs to be validated out-of-design-samples to validate its design efficacy. At the same time, we are facing a broader shift in GenAI from externally orchestrated LLM workflows to long-horizon 

agentic systems – and, increasingly, deep agents that plan, call tools, delegate to sub-agents, and revise their behaviour over multi-step tasks [15]–[17]. For operational analytics, however, this added autonomy helps only if the agent’s actions are grounded: without a symbolic contract over entities, metrics, relations, and ad-missible queries, a more capable agent merely gains more ways to hallucinate over the infrastructure it controls. This leads directly to the two research questions addressed in this manuscript: 

RQ1: Is encapsulating EXASAGE [13] as a tool within a modern deep agent design sufficient to absorb the rigidity of its single-shot workflow, or must its internal architec-ture be entirely rethought to answer generalized queries? 

RQ2: Are deep agents powered by modern LLMs capable of navigating real-world time-series databases on their own, or do they fundamentally require a symbolic representa-tion of the queried data? To answer these research questions, we introduce the sym-bolic separation design concept for data deep agent: the agent reasons freely in the neural layer, but it can only act on data through a symbolic layer – an ontology-constrained knowledge graph – that validates each access against the schema before it reaches the data. Mediating data access through an ontology is not itself new, and existing LLM +KG integrations span a spectrum [11], [18]: from verbalising retrieved triples into the prompt (KG-RAG), through giving the agent a tool or semantic-layer API 

over the data, to having the LLM author formal queries 

(text-to-SQL/SPARQL). In every case, however, the LLM still composes the relational structure of a complex answer – it issues multiple calls or joins and infers how their results relate – and that cross-call composition is exactly where schema hallucination concentrates and worsens with complexity [6]. A tool/semantic-layer agent enforces only an interface contract :each individual call is vocabulary- and type-valid, but the relations between calls are not. Ontology-Based Data Access and Virtual Knowledge Graphs [19], [20] are the exception – access is the ontology – yet no prior system connects them with deterministic, pre-execution validation inside a self-correcting deep agent , and least of all for timeseries data and operational telemetry. In contrast, the proposed symbolic separation enforces a domain-semantic contract : because rela-tionships are materialised and ontology-validated in the VKG before any query is issued, a complex question becomes a single traversal over pre-existing, validated edges, and the agent is structurally prevented not just from naming a non-existent field but from inventing how data relates, leading to a trustworthy data analyst agent. To validate it, in this manuscript we propose a deep neuro-symbolic analyst framework and evaluate it on two sets of queries in a large corpus of real data center telemetry data. The two set of queries stress one complex multi-turn data analysis query involving data retrieval, statistical post-processing and data visualization tasks, and one data retrieval-only queries. It is a multi-agent system: a deep-agent coordinator and two deep sub-agents – a Deep Neuro-Symbolic Data Retriever and a Deep Code Agent. The Deep Neuro-Symbolic Data Retriever integrates a newly proposed EXASAGE Reflect Agent with a deep sub-agent via MCP tool calling for long-horizon planning: the LLM performs only entity extraction and SPARQL generation, using the domain ontology as context, while input validation, data retrieval, virtual knowledge-graph creation, and query resolution are handled by trustworthy, auditable symbolic components. The Deep Code Agent runs statistical analysis and visualisation in a sandbox. This realises symbolic separation: the coordinator reasons freely on text, while data are queried only through the neuro-symbolic EX-ASAGE Reflect Agent. Our result shows that:  

> •

On end-to-end analytics queries (data retrieval + code execution), the proposed Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 3

with Qwen3.6-35B-A3B achieves 86% success, compared to 7% for the EXASAGE [13] SoA baseline and 43% for a non-symbolic deep analyst.  

> •

On retrieval-only queries only from HPC operational data analytics studies, the proposed approach outperforms SoA baselines and achieves the 88% of accuracy.  

> •

The proposed EXASAGE Reflect Agent consumes 2.4 ×

lower median tokens over the best alternative configuration, produces zero hallucinated outputs, and exhibits a fail-fast retry behaviour that avoids wasteful computation.  

> •

These results confirm that symbolic separation – decom-posing symbolic pipelines into focused, specialised sub-agents – not adding an agentic loop to a monolithic prompt, is the key to accurate and trustworthy analytics agents. The remainder is organised as follows. Section II reviews the state of the art. Section III details the approach – the reference architecture, the symbolic core, and the Neurosym-bolic Deep Analyst use-case implementation – and the com-parison architectures. Section IV presents the evaluation, and Section V concludes. II. S TATE OF THE ART 

A. Operational Data Analytics for Data Centers 

Modern data centers and HPC systems are complex indus-trial plants instrumented with millions of sensors [21], [22]. State-of-the-art telemetry frameworks, often called Operational Data Analytics (ODA) [23], rely on NoSQL stores to absorb heterogeneous, schema-less streams at scale [24], shifting the burden of establishing relationships between sources onto the user [25], [26]. The M100 ExaData campaign [27] made the largest such corpus public: including management, workload, facility, and infrastructure data from all 980+ compute nodes over two and a half years – 49 .9 TB uncompressed, the largest public supercomputer dataset to date [27] – later partitioned as Parquet across nine plugins (IPMI, Ganglia, Vertiv, Schneider, Logics, Weather, Nagios, SLURM, and the Job table), each with a distinct, sometimes inconsistent, schema. The dataset has supported thermal-hazard prediction, anomaly detection, and predictive maintenance [28], [29], but each analysis still demands deep query expertise. 

B. Knowledge Graphs for Heterogeneous Telemetry 

KGs address heterogeneity by integrating diverse sources into a unified, ontology-defined semantic framework expressed as RDF subject–predicate–object triples [30], [31], and have been applied across IoT domains for recommendation, se-curity, middleware, and fault diagnosis [32]–[34]. For data-center telemetry, ExaQuery [12] proposed a domain ontology in which vertices are measurements and edges are topological and compositional relationships. Materialising a full KG for telemetry is prohibitively expensive in storage: one month of data for just one data collector moves from 4.00 GiB in Parquet-based NoSQL format to ∼3 TiB when materialized in a KG, approximately 745 × of storage increase; the Virtual 

Knowledge Graph paradigm [14] avoids this by constructing, per query, only the sub-graph required. In EXASAGE [13] the VKG approach led to a maximum of 0.17 GiB storage size across all the evaluated queries. 

C. LLMs + Knowledge Graphs Taxonomy 

A large body of literature now combines LLMs with structured knowledge. The TKDE roadmap of Pan et al. [11] organises it by integration direction (KG-enhanced LLMs, LLM-augmented KGs, synergised). Under this taxonomy EXASAGE would fall into the LLM-augmented KGs, but applied to timeseries data. In the following, we will analyse the surveyed approaches based on whether data access is mediated and validated by the symbolic layer . In particular, from where the relational structure of a complex answer came from – materialised in the representation, or inferred by the LLM at query time. 

a) KG-augmented generation (KG-RAG) and KG-guided reasoning:: KAPING and related methods retrieve triples and verbalise them into the prompt; the LLM then free-generates the answer text [35], [36]. The KG informs but does not gate the output, so hallucination persists at generation time. Similarly, Think-on-Graph [37] and Reasoning-on-Graphs [38] let the LLM traverse the KG during the thinking process, thereby improving faithfulness, but the final answer is still LLM-generated free text grounded by retrieved paths – the relational composition of the answer is still the model’s. Hence, no symbolic separation. b) Semantic parsing: text-to-SQL: Here the LLM’s act is to emit a formal query [39]. The LLM must author the joins , and there is usually no deterministic ontology valida-tor rejecting hallucinated schema elements before execution; schema/join hallucination is a documented, persistent failure that grows with query complexity – on the BIRD real-database benchmark even GPT-4 attains only 40 .08% execution ac-curacy against 92 .96% for human experts [6]. To counter surface-level formatting failures, grammar-constrained decod-ing (GCD) techniques [40] have been used that force token generation to strictly adhere to formal SQL context-free gram-mars or regular expressions at inference time. However, GCD operates purely at the lexical and syntactic level; it guarantees valid keywords and balanced parentheses, but remains blind to the underlying schema or domain invariants. Consequently, it cannot prevent the generation of syntactically flawless queries that nonetheless reference non-existent tables or violate rela-tional constraints. This remains an unsettled problem: a recent state-of-the-art survey lists trustworthy/interpretable, interac-tive, and multi-database NL2SQL among the field’s central 

open problems [41], [42], a dedicated benchmark classifies NL2SQL semantic errors into 9 categories and 31 subcate-gories [8], and on realistic multi-turn, state-altering workloads even strong models degrade sharply – GPT-4o reaches only 

58 .34% overall and 23 .81% under a strict pass@5, with the dominant bottleneck being intent understanding and state planning rather than surface syntax [7]. Hence, no symbolic separation. c) Semantic layers / tool-use agents: A widespread pat-tern gives an LLM agent a semantic layer or ontology-mapped tool API over the data [15], [43], [44]. This enforces an 

interface contract – each call is vocabulary-and type-valid – but a complex question requires multiple calls whose results the LLM must relate itself, and that cross-call relational IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 4

logic is where hallucination concentrates; empirically, such agents over raw timeseries tables fail most on the queries that demand multi-source composition and state [9]. Hence, 

medium symbolic separation. d) Ontology-Based Data Access and Virtual Knowledge Graphs: OBDA/VKG [14], [19], [20], [45] is, by construction, “all data access goes through the ontology”: the ontology is the sole query vocabulary and relationships are declared once, not inferred per query. Recent works in the domain of Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA) implement LLM-Augmented KG Question Answering [11]. The authors of SPINACH [46] present an AI agent that generates SPARQL queries over a KG, improving accuracy from 3.9% to 21 .4% 

on a newly proposed dataset. Its error analysis attributes 40% 

of failures to fetching or misusing the wrong property/relation 

and 30% to an inability to compose sufficiently complex SPARQL ( ∼70% together), against only 5% from surface formatting – that is, the dominant failures are relational and compositional , not syntactic. When it comes to numer-ical timeseries and sensor telemetry KGQA, VKG become necessary and only EXASAGE [13] and its VKG-chatbot extension [47] is present as an approach in the literature. The reported accuracy is 93 .6% for correctly generated and executed graph queries, compared to only 25% accuracy for standard NoSQL query generation. This evaluation is con-ducted on 1K queries randomly generated from ten archetypes ones. This limits the generalization of the approach in end-to-end data analyst tasks. Hence, high symbolic separation. 

Furthermore, recent evaluation on conversational timeseries analytics over IoT, observability, and telecom telemetry, state-of-the-art data agents answer ∼73% of simple (stateless) queries but only ∼34% of stateful and ∼10% of incident (anomaly-detection) queries, and their failures are dominated by schema confusion, wrong time-window selection, and data-unaware baselines rather than by malformed syntax [9]. These are diagnostic benchmarks and evaluation frame-works , not grounded systems; the present paper targets the same gap with a symbolic-separation architecture that removes the schema- and join-level failure modes they expose. Agentic patterns underlie our realisation: ReAct interleaves reasoning with tool calls [15], Reflexion adds verbal self-reflection [16], and deep agents add a planner/orchestrator that delegates to focused subagents and skills [17], with capabilities exposed through MCP [48], [49]. At the model level, tool use is increasingly first-class – Qwen3.6-35B-A3B and GPT-OSS-120B expose native function calling and agentic execution [50], [51] and coding agents such as SWE-agent operate through an agent–computer interface [52] – which is what makes a self-hostable deep agent over telemetry practical. However, none of the work in the literature applies the symbolic separation approach to timeseries, IoT data. In contrast, in this paper we propose: (i) naming sym-bolic separation and drawing the interface-vs domain-semantic-contract distinction that explains why pre-connected, ontology-validated relations beat query-time join inference on complex questions; (ii) a deterministic ontology-conformance validator that rejects classes/properties/domain-range viola-tions before execution – strictly stronger than EXASAGE Query Tool’s syntactic regex refinement and than grammar-only constrained decoding; (iii) realising all this inside a deep agent (multi-step plan–act–observe, reflection, clarification, sandboxed computation) rather than a single-shot workflow; and (iv) doing so for numerical operational telemetry , the domain where prior work is sparsest. We therefore make no claim of being “first to mediate access through an ontol-ogy”; we claim the first trustworthiness-framed, deep-agent, deterministically-validated instantiation of symbolic separa-tion for operational data analytics. III. M ETHODOLOGY 

We present the approach top-down. Section III-A gives the overall architecture – the flow of information, the role of each component, and the symbolic-separation boundary that makes the design trustworthy – instantiated as Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst. Section III-B then details each major block: the coordinator, the two subagents, and the skills. Section III-C details the symbolic core – ontology, knowledge graph, and the EXASAGE Reflect Agent– emphasising how it departs from the rigid EXASAGE Query Tool workflow and should be read as a novel design. Section III-A describes the comparison architectures. 

A. Architecture Overview 

Figure 1 shows the architecture of Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst. The system is organised as a set of containerised services communicating exclusively through the Model Con-text Protocol (MCP) [48] over a FastMCP transport [49], following the MCP separation between a host (the coordinator) and servers (the specialist tools). Three containers carry the logic. The main container holds the deep-agent coordinator ,its skills, and the two subagents, each of which owns an MCP client. The DataRetriever container holds the symbolic retrieval subagent – the EXASAGE Reflect Agent – which grounds all telemetry access in an ontology-constrained Vir-tual Knowledge Graph built on demand over the ODA Data Lake. The Deep Code Agent container holds the Deep Code Agent , which runs analysis and visualisation code inside per-user, isolated sandboxes. Around these sit three supporting services: a local LLM inference service (vLLM [53]) shared by all reasoning components, LangFuse [54] for end-to-end observability, and a Chainlit web interface that handles user authorisation and conversation history. 

a) Flow of information: A request enters through the web interface and reaches the coordinator, which is responsible only for planning and delegation and deliberately holds a small context window. The coordinator decomposes a multi-step request into an ordered task list; for a task such as “retrieve the average GPU temperature and plot it” it first dispatches the retrieval step – as a natural-language sub-request – to the EXASAGE Reflect Agent subagent through the MCP client/server pair, optionally consulting the MetricsExpert skill to disambiguate metric names beforehand. The EXASAGE Reflect Agent resolves the request into an ontology-validated SPARQL query over a per-query VKG materialised from the Data Lake and returns compact, typed results, inline or IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 5

Fig. 1: Reference architecture of the proposed Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst. as a CSV reference for large outputs. The coordinator then forwards the retrieved data to the Deep Code Agent subagent, which composes and runs Python in an isolated sandbox and returns the resulting artefacts (plots, statistics). Finally, the coordinator presents the artifacts to the user with a concise summary. Every LLM generation, tool call, and subagent dispatch along this path is recorded as a nested trace in LangFuse. 

b) Symbolic separation: The coordinator and subagents reason and communicate (Fig. 1) in natural language and exchange typed, bounded results; on the data retrieval, the EX-ASAGE Reflect Agent never lets the LLM touch raw teleme-try: all data access is mediated by the ontology-constrained VKG, and every generated SPARQL query is checked against the ontology before execution (Section III-C) – the domain-semantic contract of Section II. The non-symbolic baseline (A3, Section III-A) is precisely the same architecture with this boundary removed: its retrieval subagent reads the raw datalake directly, so the LLM must discover schemas and infer joins itself. 

B. Components 

We now detail each major block of Fig. 1. The agent layer is built on LangGraph, which provides the low-level primitives – nodes, edges, state graphs, and checkpointers – for modelling agent behaviour as a directed graph in which each node invokes an LLM, executes a tool, or routes onward. On top of it, we use the DeepAgents abstraction, whose factory instantiates a runnable agent from a target LLM, a governing system prompt, a set of directly invoked tools, a list of subagents, a filesystem backend, and markdown skill files, abstracting away the graph wiring, state management, and subagent lifecycle. Each subagent runs its own MCP client and connects to a dedicated MCP server, so that a subagent is aware only of its own tool suite; because communication is mediated by MCP rather than direct references, subagents cannot reach into one another’s containers, which prevents accidental data leakage and lets individual retrieval servers scale independently of the coordinator. 

a) Coordinator (deep agent): The coordinator is the top-level deep agent that receives every request and orchestrates the response. Its behaviour is governed by a layered system prompt whose structure is shared across the compared con-figurations, with configuration-specific sections appended as needed. A shared base layer establishes its role as an orches-trator rather than an executor, states global rules such as multi-step decomposition and a bounded dispatch limit, and out-lines the routing–dispatch–present workflow. A configuration-specific layer refines this with routing rules for the active subagents. A tool-description layer exposes the subagent de-scriptions used to decide where to dispatch a task. Finally, a runtime layer injects, before each turn, the current user and conversation identifiers and a sliding window over recent turns; this context is managed explicitly to prevent the LangGraph checkpointer from replaying the full, unbounded message history and overflowing the LLM context window. Given a multi-step request, the coordinator decomposes it into an ordered task list, dispatches the retrieval step to the EXASAGE Reflect Agent (optionally consulting the MetricsExpert skill first), forwards the returned dataset to the Deep Code Agent for analysis or plotting, and presents the resulting artefacts with a concise summary. Every dispatch is tracked with a named counter; if a subagent exhausts its internal retries, the coordinator records a single failed dispatch and may re-attempt IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 6

it, refining the request from the subagent’s error report, up to a bounded number of times before reporting the outcome and terminating. 

b) The EXASAGE Reflect Agent (symbolic retrieval sub-agent): The EXASAGE Reflect Agent is the symbolic heart of the Deep Neuro-Symbolic Data Retriever. Oper-ating as a reflect loop over the ontology-grounded VKG service (Section III-C), it retrieves telemetry exclusively 

through that service, behind an MCP server exposing three tools: exasage_query (retrieve data for a natural-language request), exasage_clarify (resume the pipeline from the appropriate stage when disambiguation is needed), and 

exasage_download_csv (export large results as a CSV file). This makes the pipeline interactive and stateful , while guaranteeing that no raw table or fabricated column name ever reaches the reasoning layer. 

c) The Deep Code Agent (analysis sub-agent): Absent from all prior EXASAGE work, the Deep Code Agent trans-forms the telemetry returned by the EXASAGE Reflect Agent into visualisations and statistical analyses. To bound the risk of executing arbitrary code, it adds a further isolation layer based on nested containerisation: when a task requires execution, the Deep Code Agent MCP server spawns a per-user sandbox container that has no outbound network connectivity, runs under the gVisor syscall-level runtime [55] to intercept and filter system calls, exposes only two mounted directories for input and output, and is pre-provisioned with common data-science libraries ( pandas , numpy , matplotlib , scipy ,

scikit-learn , seaborn , statsmodels , openpyxl ). Sandboxes are provisioned per user, and a static auditor flags medium- and high-risk imports (e.g. subprocess , socket ,

ctypes ) before execution. The component exposes an MCP tool set covering the sandbox lifecycle: codeagent_init 

creates the container, codeagent_start launches the ex-ecutor, codeagent_upload transfers a base64-encoded payload into the input directory without granting the subagent direct filesystem access, codeagent_execute runs the code and returns the output, error logs, and the list of generated files, codeagent_get_artifacts retrieves outputs (such as a plot image), and codeagent_stop shuts down the sandbox to release resources. A typical flow initialises the sandbox, uploads retrieved data, generates and executes a plotting script, and returns the artefacts to the coordinator for presentation. This component turns the system from a question-answerer into a genuine data analyst and opens the door to integrating what-if analyses of the retrieved data for future work. 

d) Skill: MetricsExpert: Unlike a subagent, a skill has no LLM context, tool set, or reasoning loop; it is a markdown reference injected into the coordinator’s system prompt as background knowledge, avoiding the overhead of spawning a subagent for what is essentially a lookup. Routing itself is handled by the coordinator’s system prompt (the configuration-specific delegation layer above), so the only skill in Neurosym-bolic Deep Analyst is MetricsExpert .It includes all M100 data-collection plugins (Ganglia, IPMI, Job Table, Nagios, Schneider, SLURM, Vertiv, Weather) with their metrics, units, sampling periods, and semantic descrip-tions, and is consulted by the coordinator when dispatching, and by the EXASAGE Reflect Agent during metric extraction, to resolve a natural-language description such as “overall node power consumption” or “GPU temperature” to an exact metric name (e.g. total_power on the IPMI plugin, or 

Gpu0_gpu_temp ). This approach raises query accuracy, which matters because the LLM generation step is prone to hallucination without proper resolution of metrics. 

e) Observability: Every request carries user, trace, and conversation identifiers threaded through the coordinator, sub-agents, and individual tool calls, so that each interaction is fully traceable in LangFuse [54]. Each request produces a trace, that records every LLM generation with its input/output tokens, latency, and model name; tool executions appear as distinct spans with their arguments and response summaries; and subagent dispatches are preserved as nested sub-traces, exposing the full coordinator → subagent → tool sequence. This yields the per-request execution graphs and token ac-counting used for the stress-tests of Section IV. Observability is not merely an engineering convenience: in a trustworthy analytics setting it lets an operator audit how an answer was produced, which subagent was invoked, which SPARQL query was generated and validated, and where a hallucinated construct was rejected – rather than taking the final answer on faith. 

C. The Symbolic Core: Ontology, Knowledge Graph, and the EXASAGE Reflect Agent 

The defining property of the approach is that the agent reasons about the data but acts only through this symbolic layer, via two mechanisms detailed below. First, relationships are pre-connected : VKG construction materialises the relevant telemetry into a single connected RDF graph in which job– node, node–sensor–reading, and node–rack–room relations are already edges, so a complex question is answered by one 

ontology-validated traversal rather than by the LLM inferring joins across queries. Second, access is conformance-checked :a deterministic validator rejects any query that names a class, property, or domain/range combination absent from the ontol-ogy before it executes. These two mechanisms are what make the EXASAGE Reflect Agent a novel design rather than an increment over EXASAGE Query Tool. 

1) An ontology-constrained knowledge graph: Data access is governed by a domain ontology for ODA. Because this ontology is the schema against which every generated query is validated, its expressiveness bounds both what the agent can answer and which hallucinations the validator can catch; it is itself a contribution of the use case. The first public ODA ontology underpinning EXASAGE Query Tool [13], [56] was adequate for compute-node-centric queries but exhibited structural limitations that directly constrained the analytics agent: it modelled only data center →HPCSystem →Rack →ComputeNode (no rooms, no generic containment); kept all classes at one level, mixing physical and logical entities; had no representation for cooling or power equipment (so the Vertiv, Schneider, and Logics plugins were unreachable); modelled no external IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 7

sustainability metrics; and offered weak, mostly-direct relationships without inferred containment for multi-hop reasoning. The revised ontology (Fig. 3) addresses each limitation and is substantially larger and more expressive – 308 axioms, 36 classes, 23 object properties, and 55 data properties – restructured into three disjoint top-level classes: PhysicalEn-tity, LogicalEntity, and ExternalEntity. This separation ensures a clear distinction between infrastructure, operational, and environmental concepts. A high-level view of this organisation is shown in Fig. 2. 

PhysicalEntity represents the tangible infrastructure of the data center. It includes structural and hardware components such as data center, Room, Rack, ComputeNode, and Equip-ment, including a breakdown of power system components (UPS, PDU, Breaker, SwitchBoard) and cooling system com-ponents (Chiller, Pump, CoolingTower, CRAC). These entities are connected through a transitive contains relation, which is defined strictly within the PhysicalEntity hierarchy and en-ables multi-hop reasoning. However, the containment structure is not a single linear hierarchy but a set of branching sub-hierarchies across different physical components. Additionally, Sensors can be attached to any PhysicalEntity, providing a con-sistent monitoring interface across all physical infrastructure components. 

LogicalEntity captures operational, execution and schedul-ing, and software-level abstractions of the system. This in-cludes the HPCSystem as the central cluster-level abstraction, along with workload management components (Workload-Manager), job execution entities (Job), and associated metrics (JobMetric and SoftwareMetric). It also encompasses temporal modelling through Time, enabling consistent representation of system state during execution. Overall, this layer models system behavior independently of physical infrastructure, en-abling reasoning over execution, performance, and operational state. 

ExternalEntity models environmental and external con-textual factors that influence system operation. It includes Weather conditions and CarbonIntensity signals, enabling the integration of sustainability-aware analytics into the same queryable ontology. This allows the system to reason about environmental impact alongside internal system state. For the agent, these changes are not cosmetic: the layered separation and transitive containment let the deterministic ontology-conformance validator reason about class hierarchies when rejecting hallucinated constructs; the expanded equip-ment and software classes widen the set of answerable queries (and the plugins the EXASAGE Reflect Agent can reach); and the sustainability entities make carbon-aware analytics expressible. In short, the revised ontology is the schema that makes symbolic separation both broad and strict for this use case. 

2) From EXASAGE Query Tool to the EXASAGE Reflect Agent: a redesigned, validated pipeline: Figure 4 summarizes the redesigned EXASAGE Reflect Agent pipeline, which replaces the brittle regex-based EXASAGE Query Tool with an LLM-driven, ontology-validated approach. The pipeline exposes three external tools through its MCP server: a query 

Fig. 2: High-level class hierarchy of the revised ODA ontology, showing the three top-level classes: PhysicalEntity, LogicalEn-tity, and ExternalEntity, and their respective subclasses. 

Fig. 3: The revised ODA ontology that grounds the EX-ASAGE Reflect Agent. A layered Physical/Logical/External design, a full facility hierarchy with transitive containment, and expanded power, cooling, software, and sustainability coverage replace the compute-node-centric structure of the prior version [56]. tool for handling natural-language requests and serving as the entry point, a clarify tool to resolve runtime ambiguities within user requests, and a download-CSV tool to export results exceeding the interface row limit (to avoid a crash) for external analysis. Behind these interfaces, the system processes requests across three distinct stages:  

> •

Input Validation: A hybrid phase combining an (LLM-driven) extraction step for complex metric and temporal data with a (symbolic), regex-based extraction step for IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 8

Fig. 4: Block diagram of the EXASAGE Reflect Agent pipeline: input validation (entity, time, and multi-stage met-ric extraction), ontology- and retrieval-augmented SPARQL & VKG generation with deterministic ontology-conformance validation and a bounded self-correction loop, and query execution, with a Redis-backed cache and named-graph VKG store. standard categories. These outputs are then verified by a strict, rule-based (symbolic) logical validation step.  

> •

SPARQL & VKG Generation: A bridging phase that uses an (LLM-driven) generator to translate natural language into (symbolic) SPARQL code, while the VKG genera-tion step maps data directly to the (symbolic) schema of the underlying ontology.  

> •

Query Execution: A (purely deterministic) phase that runs the finalized, structured SPARQL queries directly on the materialised VKGs stored in the graph database. The EXASAGE Reflect Agent leverages a shared LLM inference server across three distinct operating modes: Natural Language Processing (semantic analysis), Generation (struc-tured JSON/SPARQL outputs), and Reflection (self-correction governed by an empirical confidence threshold, tref = 0 .7). The pipeline integrates two distinct storage layers to handle runtime state persistence and performance optimization inde-pendently: (1) a Redis cache manages pipeline checkpoints and session restores during external interruptions—most notably when the pipeline pauses to wait for a user’s response to a clarification request. Each request tracks a unique identifier mapping to a state tuple, S = ( stage , status , I), where 

stage is the current pipeline stage, status is the exe-cution state ( running , waiting-for-clarification ,

completed , or failed ), and I represents the intermedi-ate artifacts (extracted entities, metrics, SPARQL, and VKG components); (2) a Named-Graph VKG store operates as a semantic cache that persists generated VKG artifacts so that the system can reuse them for future queries instead of rebuilding the same graph from scratch. 

a) Stage 1: Input Validation: This stage interprets the natural-language user request, extracts the referenced teleme-try entities, and verifies that the request is complete, requesting clarification when a mandatory entity or parameter is missing. Fixed infrastructure entities (node, rack, system, data cen-ter) are extracted reliably using rule-based regex extraction; the two components that were most brittle in EXASAGE Query Tool– temporal and metric extraction – are redesigned. Time extraction is implemented as a single-step LLM task leveraging few-shot in-context learning. The model identifies temporal expressions, normalizes them, and emits standardized ISO-8601 start and end timestamps; this enables the pipeline to seamlessly handle colloquial phrasings such as “the first day of September” or “during the previous week” that EXASAGE Query Tool previously dropped. Metric extraction is harder because operational telemetry is heterogeneous and abstract terms must be grounded without requiring the user to know schema-encoded metric names: the same word (“power”) maps to different metrics depending on context (node-level power via IPMI, GPU power via Ganglia, facility power via the electrical-panel plugins). We formulate metric extraction as a multi-stage semantic grounding problem combining LLM reasoning with embed-ding retrieval, expressed as F (q) = ( M ◦ P ◦ D ◦ I)( q),where I, D, P , and M denote intent classification, query decomposition, plugin classification, and metric retrieval re-spectively. The pipeline produces a set of grounded tuples 

O = {(qi, π i, m i)}ni=1 , where each tuple maps a sub-query qi

to its corresponding plugin πi and metric mi, and n denotes the number of decomposed sub-queries. 

Intent classification I(q) → (i, c, p ) determines whether the query is metric-related ( i) and, if so, its cardinality ( c ∈{single , multi }), with confidence p. Non-metric queries are handled by an early exit path returning a non-metric response. Low-confidence predictions ( p < t intent ) are refined using a reflection mechanism, iterated until p ≥ tintent = tref 

or a fixed retry budget is exhausted. 

Query decomposition D splits a multi-metric request into a set of context-preserving sub-queries Q = {q1, . . . , q k}, each retaining the original entity, temporal, and scope context while isolating a single metric intent. 

Plugin classification P (qi) → (πi, p i) assigns a telemetry plugin πi to each sub-query with confidence pi under the same reflection mechanism, accepting only predictions with pi ≥

tplugin = tref and discarding sub-queries that fail to meet this threshold. 

Metric retrieval M (qi, π i) grounds each validated query– plugin pair against a per-plugin vector database of metric embeddings. Candidates are ranked by cosine similarity sij ,with top score s∗ 

> i

= max j sij .A decision function δ(s∗ 

> i

) determines the retrieval outcome: 

δ(s∗ 

> i

) = 



fail , s∗ 

> i

< 0.5,

clarification , 0.5 ≤ s∗ 

> i

< 0.7,

accept , s∗ 

> i

≥ 0.7.IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 9

Algorithm 1 EXASAGE Reflect Agent Metric extraction 

Require: User query q

Ensure: Grounded query–plugin–metric tuples O 

> 1:

(i, c, p ) ← I(q) 

> 2:

if i = non_metric then  

> 3:

return non-metric response  

> 4:

end if  

> 5:

retry ← 0 

> 6:

while p < t intent and retry < max retries do  

> 7:

Apply reflection for self-correction  

> 8:

(i, c, p ) ← I(q) 

> 9:

retry ← retry + 1  

> 10:

end while  

> 11:

if p < t intent then  

> 12:

return failure  

> 13:

end if  

> 14:

Q ← D(q, c ); O ← ∅  

> 15:

for all qi ∈ Q do  

> 16:

(πi, p i) ← P (qi); retry ← 0 

> 17:

while pi < t plugin and retry < max retries do  

> 18:

Apply reflection to refine plugin selection  

> 19:

(πi, p i) ← P (qi); retry ← retry + 1  

> 20:

end while  

> 21:

if pi < t plugin then  

> 22:

continue  

> 23:

end if  

> 24:

{(mij , s ij )} ← M (qi, π i); s∗ 

> i

← max j sij  

> 25:

if s∗ 

> i

≥ 0.7 then  

> 26:

mi ← arg max j sij ; O ← O ∪ { (qi, π i, m i)} 

> 27:

else if 0.5 ≤ s∗ 

> i

< 0.7 then  

> 28:

return clarification request  

> 29:

else  

> 30:

return failure request  

> 31:

end if  

> 32:

end for  

> 33:

return O

Only accept outcomes contribute to the output set O.

clarification outcomes suspend execution, return can-didate metrics to the user, and resume upon receiving feed-back, while fail outcomes terminate the current request and prompt the user to reformulate the query. Algorithm 1 summarises the complete metric extraction pipeline. Compared with the previous EXASAGE Query Tool implementation, this design resolves the failure mode in which abstract metric references could not be grounded to database metrics, while also supporting multi-metric requests. For example, the query “gpu and cpu utilisation for job X” is decomposed into two sub-queries and grounded to the metrics 

[Gpu3_gpu_utilization, cpu_num] .

b) Stage 2: SPARQL and VKG Generation: The vali-dated output of Stage 1 drives the generation of two artefacts: a query-specific VKG and the SPARQL query executed over it. Rather than materialising the full graph, the system constructs only the sub-graph required for the current request, following the schema of the revised ODA ontology (Section III-C1), and stores it as a named graph. VKG construction is deterministic and non-recoverable: any failure during graph assembly aborts the request. 

VKG Generation is a computationally intensive process, primarily due to the construction of large-scale RDF expan-sions over event-driven and time-series data. Job entities scale with user submissions Nj , while metric ingestion is driven by continuous sampling at frequency fs, yielding Nr ≈ T ·fs ob-servations; since each observation expands into approximately four RDF triples (as defined by the revised ODA ontology in Section III-C1), the construction cost is dominated by metric processing in practice. To bound re-computation, VKG generation is cached using a hash of extracted entities. Each cached entry is stored as a named graph and indexed in a dedicated cache-metadata 

graph containing creation time, last access time, size, and access-control attributes. Before constructing a new VKG, the system checks for an existing compatible entry; if found, it is reused and its access timestamp updated. Otherwise, a new VKG is generated and stored. Cached graphs are evicted using a least-recently-used policy when capacity is exceeded. VKG construction adopts the Polars-based batching and N-Triples serialisation optimisations introduced in our VKG-chatbot preprint [47], reducing latency while maintaining per-query graph storage in the order of a few MiB. Our implementation adopts a custom VKG materialisation strategy tailored to the revised ODA ontology. Established VKG tools such as Ontop [45] were originally designed for relational databases but have since been extended to support heterogeneous data sources, including Parquet-based and non-relational systems commonly used in HPC environments. A comparative evaluation against such frameworks is deferred to future work. 

SPARQL generation is ontology-and context-augmented. The prompt incorporates extracted metrics, temporal con-straints, and ontology traversal paths associated with each plu-gin, which act as structural constraints that reduce the space of admissible graph patterns and mitigate invalid joins. Further-more, query generation is supported by retrieval-augmented few-shot prompting: previously curated question–SPARQL pairs are embedded in a dedicated vector database, and the top-k most similar examples are retrieved into the prompt. Generated queries are first processed by a deterministic ontology-conformance validator . The validator extracts admis-sible classes, object properties, and data properties from the ontology along with their domain, range, and datatype con-straints. It parses the generated SPARQL triple patterns, ver-ifies that all referenced entities exist, and performs ontology-guided type inference using subclass, domain, and range re-lations. It also enforces structural consistency, including valid variable binding in projections, correct filter expressions, and connected graph patterns. Queries that violate these constraints are rejected before execution. Queries that pass conformance validation are then evaluated for semantic completeness using a reasoning LLM model. The model produces a structured report including a confidence score p and diagnostic signals such as missing projections, projection quality issues, and grouping violations. If p < 0.9,a bounded repair loop is triggered. This loop uses diagnostic IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 10 

Fig. 5: EXASAGE Reflect Agent state machine. feedback to determine whether corrections are required, and applies a constrained instruction-following LLM restricted to modifying only SELECT and GROUP BY clauses. WHERE patterns and filter logic remain immutable. Repaired queries are optionally revalidated before execution to ensure ontology compliance. Finally, SPARQL projections are rewritten to map internal identifiers to human-readable labels for downstream presenta-tion (instead of internal KG URIs). 

c) Stage 3: Query Execution: The validated query is ex-ecuted against the graph database SPARQL endpoint. Syntax-based execution failures trigger a bounded retry loop in which feedback is returned to the SPARQL generation module for regeneration. The system allows up to a maximum number of retries before terminating with failure. 

d) System lifecycle: Figure 5 summarises the request lifecycle as a state machine. Execution begins in Idle ; a new request moves to Input Validation , from which three paths are possible: an incomplete or ambiguous request enters Waiting for Clarification and, once answered, returns to input valida-tion; an invalid request moves to the terminal Request Rejected 

state; and a valid request proceeds to SPARQL and VKG Generation . Within that stage, the two artefacts are treated differently: VKG construction is a deterministic workflow with no self-correction, so any error in building the query-specific graph transitions the request directly to the terminal 

Failed state; SPARQL generation, by contrast, runs the self-correction loop, regenerating on failed ontology-conformance validation or execution until success or exhaustion of the retry budget, at which point the request also reaches Failed . On successful generation, the request moves to Query Execution 

and then to the terminal Completed state. All three terminal states converge on the final state, ending the lifecycle. The result is qualitatively different from EXASAGE Query Tool: interactive (it can pause and ask the user), self-correcting (reflection plus deterministic ontology-conformance valida-tion), multi-sensor aware, and able to reach previously unsup-ported plugins. Within the approach, the EXASAGE Reflect Agent is the symbolic anchor that makes the whole agent trustworthy. IV. E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS 

In this section we evaluate the proposed Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst on a real data center-telemetry corpus. We com-pare three configurations: the proposed Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst (Deep Neuro-Symbolic Data Retriever → EXASAGE Reflect Agent), the SoA EXASAGE Query Tool [13], and the non-symbolic Deep Analyst (Deep Neuro-Symbolic Data Retriever → Datalake Query Tool) on two different sets of queries: (i) 14 end-to-end data analysis tasks and (ii) data retrieval only. The end-to-end data analysis queries are newly proposed, while the data retrieval ones are an extended version of the original ten queries archetypes extended to 75 unique queries. On the first end-to-end data analysis query dataset we tested two modern self-deployed open-weight LLMs: GPT-OSS-120B dense model and Qwen3.6-35B-A3B MoE model. To isolate the effect of symbolic separation, we compare three configurations that share the same coordinator, skills, LLM, and hardware and differ only in the backend the Deep Neuro-Symbolic Data Retriever calls over MCP: 

NSA – Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst (proposed). The Deep Neuro-Symbolic Data Retriever calls the EXASAGE Reflect Agent (Section III-C): a reflect loop over the VKG that resolves ambiguous metric names, requests clarification on ambiguity, splits large time ranges to avoid timeouts, and returns results inline or as CSV. It exposes exasage_query ,

exasage_clarify , and exasage_download_csv .

SoTA#1 – EXASAGE Query Tool [13] (SoA baseline). 

The Deep Neuro-Symbolic Data Retriever calls the published EXASAGE workflow [13] over the same knowledge graph. Lacking the reflect loop, it cannot resolve metric names or clarify; it needs exact metric names (from the MetricsExpert skill) and strict [YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS] timestamps, and a malformed input fails immediately. It exposes the same tool interface as the previous case. 

SoTA#2 – Deep Analyst (non-symbolic ablation). The Deep Neuro-Symbolic Data Retriever calls the Datalake Query Tool, which bypasses the knowledge graph and queries the raw datalake directly through Datalake Query API and helper functions, with no ontology validation. It can list plugins and metrics and run a targeted query, returning inline JSON, but has no reflect loop, clarification, or CSV export. The LLM must discover schemas itself and infer the relationships to join multiple sources at query time, so SoTA#2 tests whether pre-connecting relations in the VKG (NSA) avoids that cross-call relational hallucination. All experiments use M100 ExaData [27] (Parquet par-titions); the Base-KG stores static M100 metadata (spatial layout, rack configuration, node locations). All runs are traced in LangFuse [54], providing per-query execution graphs and token accounting for reproducibility and audit. Inference ran on an NVIDIA H100 80 GB GPU under vLLM [53] with a maximum context length of 256k tokens; graph store GraphDB-Free; retrieval reads Parquet via Polars. We evaluate the approach using two newly created sets of queries: (i) end-to-end , a set of 14 queries (Appendix A, Table 1) where retrieval is followed by analysis and visu-alisation, so that both the symbolic contract and the deep-IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 11 

agent orchestration are exercised together; (ii) a retrieval-level query dataset composed of 75 queries from recent HPC ODA studies [57]–[61] (Available at GitLab repository): for each study we translated its data pipeline into the questions an analytics system must answer, an LLM drafted them, and five HPC researchers rephrased them. This dataset itself includes a single instance of each of the ten query archetypes used in [13] to compose the evaluated 1K queries. 

A. End-to-end data analytics task comparison 

We use a benchmark of 14 end-to-end analytics queries (Ap-pendix A Table 1) spanning the spectrum of HPC operational tasks: each query requires retrieving the correct telemetry 

and producing a requested visualisation or statistic, so that a trial is a full complete success only if both the data-retrieval and the code-execution stages succeed. We run the three architectures NSA, SoTA#1, SoTA#2, each with two open-weight LLMs served locally – Qwen3.6-35B-A3B [62] and GPT-OSS-120B [63] – giving 3 × 2 × 14 = 84 end-to-end trials.                             

> Configuration LLM Data retrieval Code exec. Both
> EXASAGE Reflect Agent Qwen3.6-35B-A3B 13 12 12
> EXASAGE Reflect Agent GPT-OSS-120B 543
> EXASAGE Query Tool Qwen3.6-35B-A3B 110
> EXASAGE Query Tool GPT-OSS-120B 100
> Datalake Query Tool Qwen3.6-35B-A3B 522
> Datalake Query Tool GPT-OSS-120B 876

TABLE I: End-to-end results success rate Table I reports for each tested configuration the number of queries that completed only the data retrieval part, only the code executor part, or both. It must be noted that in this table we count as completed also the cases in which the provided answers were wrong. We can observe that both archi-tecture and LLM model play a significant role. The proposed Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst and EXASAGE Reflect Agent when combined with Qwen3.6-35B-A3B achieves the highest success score of 86% . The two failed queries stop during the process as they reached the maximum context length — the one that failed was the LLM inference server. In contrast SoTA#1 configuration based on the EXASAGE Query Tool achieved only 7% of success when using Qwen3.6-35B-A3B model ( 0% with GPT-OSS-120B one). The single data retrieval and code exec. successes for EXASAGE Query Tool with Qwen3.6-35B-A3B occurred on two different queries. Manual inspection revealed that the one code-execution success was achieved illegitimately: the subagent, unable to retrieve data via EXASAGE, went beyond its tools by reading the filesystem and discovered a running MCP server of Datalake Query Tool and issued queries there. This cross-container escape further motivates the strict symbolic separation enforced by the proposed Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst architecture. While the SoTA#2 configuration, which does not rely on a neurosymbolic approach to query the data achieves a success score of 43% with GPT-OSS-120B, but drops to 14% with Qwen3.6-35B-A3B model. An analysis of provided answers shows that while for the proposed approach and SoTA#1 all the successful queries are also correct, out of the 6 successful queries of the SoTA#2 only 5 are correct. This underline the importance of the symbolic separa-tion design concept deep analyst agents as a mechanism to guarantee trustworthiness. Furthermore, it must be noted the significant gap between the 7% of successfully queries and the 

93 .6% of accuracy reported by the authors of EXASAGE in [13]. We further investigate this gap: we conducted a second analysis on the data retrieval queries dataset in Section IV-B. The gap between the score achieved by EXASAGE Reflect Agent and the EXASAGE Query Tool answer to the RQ1 – the newly presented EXASAGE Reflect Agent design is essential for accurate and trustworthy Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst agents. We now restrict to the most performing configuration, namely EXASAGE Reflect Agent with Qwen3.6-35B-A3B and SoTA#2 with GPT-OSS-120B and we analyse their be-haviour for the individual tested queries. This comparison answer RQ2. Table II reports for each configuration tested: (i) data-retrieval success and code-execution success (and their con-junction, “both successful”); (ii) answer correctness , with responses labelled correct, hallucinated, incomplete, or failed; and (iii) token usage which counts both input and output tokens, decomposed across the three internal components (coordinator, data retrieval, code execution) as a cost/effort proxy. We also report the percentage of generated output tokens in the total token count. (iv) the number of failed try any agent or sub-agent faced during a query answer. All runs are traced in LangFuse [54], providing per-query execution graphs and token accounting for reproducibility and audit. From it, we can notice that the complexity of each query resolution varied from tens of thousands of tokens to millions of tokens. Among these the generated output tokens are a small fraction of the total, ranging from 0.5% to 11.3%, confirming that multi-agent systems are predominantly context-processing workloads. Overall, EXASAGE Reflect Agent with Qwen3.6-35B-A3B achieves a median of 300k tokens per successful query versus 713k tokens for Datalake Query Tool with GPT-OSS-120B: a 2.4× token efficiency improvement, demonstrating that sym-bolic separation delivers both accuracy and cost savings. In terms of retrials, the retry counts reveal a qualitative difference in error handling: EXASAGE Reflect Agent rarely retries beyond a single attempt, while Datalake Query Tool repeatedly retries failing queries, burning millions of tokens, for example, 14 retries on Q14 alone without recovering. This suggests that the symbolic separation in EXASAGE Reflect Agent provides early detection of unsalvageable trajectories, avoiding wasteful computation. Notably, Datalake Query Tool produces hallucinated outputs on Q11 and Q12 (marked FH): answers that appear plausible but are factually wrong. This failure mode is more problematic than a hard failure, because a human observer might trust the output without manual verification. EXASAGE Reflect Agent produces zero hallucinated answers, further reinforcing the trustworthiness argument. Across the models generation steps, GPT-OSS-120B hallucinates the most: frequently inventing IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 12 

TABLE II: Per-query comparison, two best configurations. Status: C = correct, H = hallucinated, I = incomplete, F = failed. 

Coord/Data/Code partition the internal tokens across the coordinator, data-retrieval, and code-execution components; Out is the share of generated (completion) tokens in the total tokens; Rt is the number of failed dispatch retries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

> NSA – EXASAGE Reflect Agent w. Qwen3.6-35B-A3B SoTA#2 – Datalake Query Tool w. GPT-OSS-120B QSt. Tokens Coord% Data% Code% Out% Rt St. Tokens Coord% Data% Code% Out% Rt
> Q1 C44k 35.6 64.4 0.0 3.0 0H92k 25.3 74.7 0.0 1.5 0Q2 C149k 19.8 23.7 56.4 8.5 0C561k 30.9 27.8 41.3 11.3 0Q3 C360k 25.5 59.4 15.2 4.3 0C462k 5.7 14.1 80.2 4.3 0Q4 I589k 5.5 85.0 9.5 1.9 1I2.50M 4.2 6.6 89.2 0.7 0Q5 C4.20M 6.5 76.8 16.7 5.4 0F630k 15.2 84.8 0.0 1.0 4Q6 C4.50M 15.1 54.8 30.2 5.6 1C2.09M 14.3 64.9 20.8 1.0 4Q7 C240k 30.5 54.9 14.7 6.7 0F114k 45.5 54.5 0.0 2.9 4Q8 C3.64M 0.9 97.6 1.5 1.0 0F660k 1.1 98.9 0.0 1.0 4Q9 C1.25M 3.4 88.0 8.6 1.7 0F167k 4.5 95.5 0.0 2.2 4Q10 C100k 25.3 33.7 40.9 4.7 0C713k 3.2 92.4 4.4 1.4 0Q11 C45k 55.3 44.7 0.0 5.1 1FH 669k 26.0 35.7 38.4 8.4 0Q12 C80k 31.5 19.3 49.3 4.1 0FH 1.18M 1.2 98.8 0.0 0.9 0Q13 F95k 8.6 91.4 0.0 2.9 6C1.40M 1.6 3.8 94.6 0.5 0Q14 C510k 9.0 71.3 19.7 5.6 0F1.46M 96.0 4.0 0.0 1.1 14

metric names and, at the agent level, terminating early, hallu-cinating missing data and mismanaging large results (on Q14 it looped 14 times for 1.46M tokens, 96% in the coordinator with no proper output, whereas Qwen3.6-35B-A3B finished within 510k tokens). These results demonstrate that adherence to instructions and persistent reasoning matter more than raw parameter count across the models, while hallucination-prone model is prevented from returning correct data. Therefore, aggregating across all 14 data analytics tasks: EXASAGE Reflect Agent achieves 12 correct, 1 incomplete, 1 failed with a median of 0 retries. Datalake Query Tool achieves 4 correct, 1 incomplete, 2 hallucinated, 5 failed with a median of 4 retries on failed queries. The correctness gap (86% vs. 29%) and the retry gap together demonstrate that the proposed symbolic separation improves both accuracy, trustworthiness, and cost predictability, demonstrating the Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst on Qwen3.6-35B-A3B is the best configuration. Since EXASAGE Query Tool reaches only ∼7% here against the 93 .6% reported in [13], we isolate the cause with a retrieval-level study. The full query is in Appendix A. 

B. Data retrieval comparison 

Table III reports correct retrievals per backend for the formulated 75 queries on HPC ODA studies. The EXAS-AGE Query Tool answers 42/75 ( 56% ), which surpasses the Datalake Query Tool accuracy, which answers only to 36/75 (48% ) questions. This confirms that EXASAGE Query Tool rigid, single-shot formulation is better than Datalake Query Tool (which does not implement symbolic separation), and it is strong on templated queries, but degrades on free-form phrasing: a component breakdown (Table IV) locates the loss in SPARQL generation (46.3%) and final-answer composition (42.7%) rather than entity extraction (63.4%).     

> Data-retrieval backend Correct retrievals
> Datalake Query Tool 36/75 EXASAGE Query Tool 42/75 EXASAGE Reflect Agent (proposed) 66/75

TABLE III: Retrieval-level study accuracy The EXASAGE Reflect Agent answers 66/75 (88% ), roughly doubling EXASAGE Query Tool; its residual failures trace to sub-agent query framing, SPARQL syntax, and out-of-context inputs rather than to grounding. These results confirm that decomposing NL → SPARQL into distinct stages with specialised sub-agents is what closes the gap and improves accuracy, not the agentic infrastructure itself.      

> Component Accuracy [%]
> Entity extraction 63.4 SPARQL query generation 46.3 Virtual Knowledge Graph generation 59.8 Final answer 42.7

TABLE IV: EXASAGE Query Tool Component-wise accuracy 

C. The Deep Code Agent (analysis sub-agent) 

. In this subsection, we evaluate the result provided by the Deep Code Agent which demonstrates a powerful capability to autonomously extract, analyze, and visualize complex oper-ational data from high-performance computing environments. We present (Appendix B, Figure 1) the performance on three distinct analytical tasks (Q4, Q9, Q6) using the EXASAGE Reflect Agent with Qwen3.6-35B-A3B as the reasoning engine for data processing and visualization. The successful generation of these plots each requiring distinct analytical techniques (time-series correlation, compar-ative profiling, and distribution analysis with outlier detection) demonstrates that analysis subagent is not merely a plotting tool but a cognitive extension of the EXASAGE. It enables the system to transform raw data into actionable insights, complete with contextual annotations and statistical summaries. This capability is particularly valuable in large-scale HPC environ-ments where manual analysis is infeasible. V. C ONCLUSION 

We presented a neurosymbolic deep-agent approach for trustworthy data analytics over large-scale numerical opera-tional telemetry, built on the principle of symbolic separation :a generative agent may reason freely but may act on data IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 13 

only through an ontology-constrained knowledge graph that validates every access against the schema before execution. We validated the proposed Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst against two ablations on M100 ExaData across two open-weight LLMs. Symbolic grounding raised end-to-end task success from 6/14 for the strongest non-symbolic configuration to 12/14 for the Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst on Qwen3.6-35B-A3B, prevented silent data-integrity errors that no syntactic check catches, and did so at roughly 2.4× lower token cost on successful queries; a retrieval-level study attributed the large accuracy gap to the published EXASAGE [13] result to the single-shot formulation of the EXASAGE Query Tool rather than to grounding, since the EXASAGE Reflect Agent roughly doubled its correct retrievals. The results show that the proposed symbolic separation approach plays a key role in the creation of trustworthy data analyst agents. Future works will extend the Neurosymbolic Deep Analyst with a visual validator of generated artifacts, extend the ontology and VKG approach to support stateful and incident queries, and extend the approach to other IoT and Industry 4.0 use-cases as well as validating it in real systems. ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

This research was supported by EuroHPC JU SEANERGYS (g.a. 101177590). REFERENCES [1] E. Siow, T. Tiropanis, and W. Hall, “Analytics for the internet of things: A survey,” ACM Computing Surveys , vol. 51, no. 4, pp. 1–36, 2018. [2] L. Duan and L. Da Xu, “Data analytics in industry 4.0: A survey,” 

Information Systems Frontiers , vol. 26, no. 6, pp. 2287–2303, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10796-021-10190-0 [3] M. Mohammadi, A. Al-Fuqaha, S. Sorour, and M. Guizani, “Deep learning for IoT big data and streaming analytics: A survey,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials , vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 2923–2960, 2018. [4] T. De Bie, L. De Raedt, J. Hern´ andez-Orallo, H. H. Hoos, P. Smyth, and C. K. I. Williams, “Automating data science,” Commun. ACM , vol. 65, no. 3, p. 76–87, Feb. 2022. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3495256 [5] L. Huang, W. Yu, W. Ma, W. Zhong, Z. Feng, H. Wang, Q. Chen, W. Peng, X. Feng, B. Qin, and T. Liu, “A survey on hallucination in large language models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and open questions,” ArXiv , vol. abs/2311.05232, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:265067168 [6] J. Li, B. Hui, G. Qu, J. Yang, B. Li, B. Li, B. Wang, B. Qin, R. Geng, N. Huo, X. Zhou, C. Ma, G. Li, K. C. Chang, F. Huang, R. Cheng, and Y. Li, “Can llm already serve as a database interface? a big bench for large-scale database grounded text-to-sqls,” in Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , ser. NIPS ’23. Red Hook, NY, USA: Curran Associates Inc., 2024. [7] L. Sun, T. Guo, H. Liang, R. Liu, Y. Li, Q. Cai, J. Wei, Y. Wu, B. Yu, X. Zhang, W. Zhang, and B. Cui, “Rethinking text-to-SQL: Dynamic multi-turn SQL interaction for real-world database exploration,” in 

Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2026 .Association for Computational Linguistics, 2026, pp. 33 047–33 069. [8] X. Liu, S. Shen, B. Li, N. Tang, and Y. Luo, “NL2SQL-BUGs: A benchmark for detecting semantic errors in NL2SQL translation,” in 

Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD) , 2025, pp. 5662–5673. [9] A. Maddi, P. Naval, D. Mande, M. Girish, S. Duan, and V. Sekar, “Gen-erating expressive and customizable evals for timeseries data analysis agents with AgentFuel,” in ACM Conference on AI and Agentic Systems (CAIS ’26) . Association for Computing Machinery, 2026, pp. 639–673. [10] M. Zong, A. Hekmati, M. Guastalla, Y. Li, and B. Krishnamachari, “Integrating large language models with internet of things applications,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19223 [11] S. Pan, L. Luo, Y. Wang, C. Chen, J. Wang, and X. Wu, “Unifying large language models and knowledge graphs: A roadmap,” IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , vol. 36, no. 7, pp. 3580–3599, 2024. [12] J. A. Khan, M. Molan, M. Angelinelli, and A. Bartolini, “ExaQuery: Proving Data Structure to Unstructured Telemetry Data in Large-Scale HPC,” in Companion of the 15th ACM/SPEC International Conference on Performance Engineering , ser. ICPE ’24 Companion. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, May 2024, pp. 127– 134. [13] J. Ahmed Khan, M. Molan, and A. Bartolini, “Exasage: The first data center operational data analysis assistant,” Future Generation Computer Systems , vol. 176, p. 108185, 2026. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X25004790 [14] G. Xiao, L. Ding, B. Cogrel, and D. Calvanese, “Virtual knowledge graphs: An overview of systems and use cases,” Data Intelligence ,vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 201–223, 2019. [Online]. Available: https: //doi.org/10.1162/dint a 00011 [15] S. Yao, J. Zhao, D. Yu, N. Du, I. Shafran, K. Narasimhan, and Y. Cao, “ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models,” in 

International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2023. [16] N. Shinn, F. Cassano, E. Berman, A. Gopinath, K. Narasimhan, and S. Yao, “Reflexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learn-ing,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) ,2023. [17] LangChain, “Deep agents: Architecture and memory,” https://docs. langchain.com/oss/python/deepagents/, 2025, accessed: 2026-06-27. [18] C. Ma, Y. Chen, T. Wu, A. Khan, and H. Wang, “Large language models meet knowledge graphs for question answering: Synthesis and opportunities,” in Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , C. Christodoulopoulos, T. Chakraborty, C. Rose, and V. Peng, Eds. Suzhou, China: Association for Computational Linguistics, Nov. 2025, pp. 24 578–24 597. [Online]. Available: https://aclanthology.org/2025.emnlp-main.1249/ [19] A. Poggi, D. Lembo, D. Calvanese, G. De Giacomo, M. Lenzerini, and R. Rosati, “Linking data to ontologies,” Journal on Data Semantics X ,vol. 4900, pp. 133–173, 2008. [20] G. Xiao, D. Calvanese, R. Kontchakov, D. Lembo, A. Poggi, R. Rosati, and M. Zakharyaschev, “Ontology-based data access: A survey,” in 

Proceedings of the 27th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI) , 2018, pp. 5511–5519. [21] A. Netti, W. Shin, M. Ott, T. Wilde, and N. Bates, “A conceptual frame-work for hpc operational data analytics,” in 2021 IEEE International Conference on Cluster Computing (CLUSTER) , 2021, pp. 596–603. [22] M. Ott, W. Shin, and et al., “Global experiences with hpc operational data measurement, collection and analysis,” in 2020 IEEE International Conference on Cluster Computing , 2020. [23] A. Netti, M. Ott, and C. e. a. Guillen, “Operational data analytics in practice: experiences from design to deployment in production hpc environments,” Parallel Computing , vol. 113, p. 102950, 2022. [24] D. Chamberlin, “50 years of queries,” Commun. ACM , vol. 67, no. 8, p. 110–121, Aug. 2024. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/ 3649887 [25] M. El Malki, H. Ben Hamadou, M. Chevalier, A. P´ eninou, and O. Teste, “Querying heterogeneous data in graph-oriented nosql systems,” in 

Big Data Analytics and Knowledge Discovery: 20th International Conference, DaWaK 2018, Regensburg, Germany, September 3–6, 2018, Proceedings . Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, 2018, p. 289–301. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-98539-8 22 [26] S. Scherzinger, M. Klettke, and U. St¨ orl, “Managing schema evolution in nosql data stores,” 2013. [Online]. Available: https: //arxiv.org/abs/1308.0514 [27] A. Borghesi, C. Di Santi, M. Molan et al. , “M100 exadata: a data collection campaign on the cineca’s marconi100 tier-0 supercomputer,” Scientific Data , vol. 10, p. 288, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-023-02174-3 [28] B. Aksar, E. Sencan, B. Schwaller, O. Aaziz, V. J. Leung, J. Brandt, B. Kulis, M. Egele, and A. K. Coskun, “Runtime performance anomaly diagnosis in production hpc systems using active learning,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst. , vol. 35, no. 4, p. 693–706, Apr. 2024. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/TPDS.2024.3365462 [29] A. Borghesi, M. Molan, M. Milano, and A. Bartolini, “Anomaly de-tection and anticipation in high performance computing systems,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems , vol. 33, no. 4, pp. 739–750, 2022. [30] S. Ji, S. Pan, E. Cambria, P. Marttinen, and P. S. Yu, “A survey on knowledge graphs: Representation, acquisition, and applications,” IEEE IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING – SPECIAL ISSUE ON DATA AND KNOWLEDGE EMPOWERED GENERATIVE AI 14 

Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems , vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 494–514, 2021. [31] B. McBride, The Resource Description Framework (RDF) and its Vocabulary Description Language RDFS . Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2004, pp. 51–65. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24750-0 3 [32] K. Yao, H. Wang, Y. Li, J. J. P. C. Rodrigues, and V. H. C. de Al-buquerque, “A group discovery method based on collaborative filtering and knowledge graph for iot scenarios,” IEEE Transactions on Compu-tational Social Systems , vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 279–290, 2022. [33] C. Xie, B. Yu, Z. Zeng, Y. Yang, and Q. Liu, “Multilayer internet-of-things middleware based on knowledge graph,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal , vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 2635–2648, 2021. [34] Y. Chi, Y. Dong, Z. J. Wang, F. R. Yu, and V. C. M. Leung, “Knowledge-based fault diagnosis in industrial internet of things: A survey,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal , vol. 9, no. 15, pp. 12 886–12 900, 2022. [35] J. Baek, A. F. Aji, and A. Saffari, “Knowledge-augmented language model prompting for zero-shot knowledge graph question answering,” in Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Natural Language Reasoning and Structured Explanations (NLRSE) , B. Dalvi Mishra, G. Durrett, P. Jansen, D. Neves Ribeiro, and J. Wei, Eds. Toronto, Canada: Association for Computational Linguistics, Jun. 2023, pp. 78–106. [Online]. Available: https://aclanthology.org/2023.nlrse-1.7/ [36] G. Agrawal, T. Kumarage, Z. Alghamdi, and H. Liu, “Can knowledge graphs reduce hallucinations in LLMs? A survey,” in Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL) , 2024, pp. 3947–3960. [37] J. Sun, C. Xu, L. Tang, S. Wang, C. Lin, Y. Gong, L. M. Ni, H.-Y. Shum, and J. Guo, “Think-on-graph: Deep and responsible reasoning of large language model on knowledge graph,” in International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2024, arXiv:2307.07697. [38] L. Luo, Y.-F. Li, G. Haffari, and S. Pan, “Reasoning on graphs: Faithful and interpretable large language model reasoning,” in International Con-ference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2024, arXiv:2310.01061. [39] L. Shi, Z. Tang, N. Zhang, X. Zhang, and Z. Yang, “A survey on employing large language models for text-to-sql tasks,” ACM Comput. Surv. , vol. 58, no. 2, Sep. 2025. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3737873 [40] S. Geng, M. Josifoski, M. Peyrard, and R. West, “Grammar-constrained decoding for structured nlp tasks without finetuning,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13971 [41] Y. Luo, G. Li, J. Fan, C. Chai, and N. Tang, “Natural language to SQL: State of the art and open problems,” Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment , vol. 18, no. 12, pp. 5466–5471, 2025. [42] A. Floratou, F. Psallidas, F. Zhao, S. Deep, G. Hagleither, W. Tan, J. Cahoon, R. Alotaibi, J. Henkel, A. Singla, A. van Grootel, B. Chow, K. Deng, K. Lin, M. Campos, K. V. Emani, V. Pandit, V. Shnitko, Y. Sun, F. Fu, C. Bao, S. Wang, S. Krishnan, and C. Curino, “NL2SQL is a solved problem... not!” in Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research (CIDR) , 2024. [43] S. Mishra, S. Niroula, U. Yadav, D. Thakur, S. Gyawali, and S. Gaire, “Sok: Agentic retrieval-augmented generation (rag): Taxonomy, architectures, evaluation, and research directions,” 2026. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.07379 [44] T. Schick, J. Dwivedi-Yu, R. Dess` ı, R. Raileanu, M. Lomeli, L. Zettle-moyer, N. Cancedda, and T. Scialom, “Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to use tools,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , 2023. [45] D. Calvanese, B. Cogrel, S. Komla-Ebri, R. Kontchakov, D. Lanti, M. Rezk, M. Rodriguez-Muro, and G. Xiao, “Ontop: Answering SPARQL queries over relational databases,” Semantic Web , vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 471–487, 2017. [46] S. Liu, S. J. Semnani, H. Triedman, J. Xu, I. D. Zhao, and M. S. Lam, “SPINACH: SPARQL-based information navigation for challenging real-world questions,” in Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024 , 2024, arXiv:2407.11417. [47] J. A. Khan, H. P. Cavagna, A. Proia, and A. Bartolini, “From data center iot telemetry to data analytics chatbots – virtual knowledge graph is all you need,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.22267 [48] Anthropic, “Model context protocol (mcp) specification,” https:// modelcontextprotocol.io, 2025, accessed: 2026-06-27. [49] FastMCP Contributors, “Fastmcp: A fast, pythonic framework for build-ing mcp servers and clients,” https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp, 2025, accessed: 2026-06-27. [50] Qwen Team, “Function calling and tool use with qwen3,” https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen3/blob/main/docs/source/framework/ function call.md, 2026, accessed: 2026-07-01. [51] OpenAI, “Introducing gpt-oss,” https://openai.com/index/ introducing-gpt-oss/, 2025, accessed: 2026-07-01. [52] J. Yang, C. E. Jimenez, A. Wettig, K. Lieret, S. Yao, K. Narasimhan, and O. Press, “SWE-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol. 37, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper files/paper/2024/hash/ 5a7c947568c1b1328ccc5230172e1e7c-Abstract-Conference.html [53] W. Kwon, Z. Li, S. Zhuang, Y. Sheng, L. Zheng, C. H. Yu, J. E. Gonzalez, H. Zhang, and I. Stoica, “Efficient memory management for large language model serving with PagedAttention,” in Proceedings of the 29th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP) , 2023. [54] Langfuse, “Langfuse: Open source llm engineering platform,” https:// langfuse.com, 2025, accessed: 2026-06-27. [55] Google, “gvisor: Application kernel for containers,” https://gvisor.dev, 2025, accessed: 2026-06-27. [56] J. A. Khan and A. Bartolini, “Unified ODA ontology,” in GraphSys Workshop, Euro-Par 2025 , 2025, https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.06107. [57] M. Molan, A. Borghesi, D. Cesarini, L. Benini, and A. Bartolini, “RUAD: Unsupervised anomaly detection in HPC systems,” Future Generation Computer Systems , vol. 141, pp. 542–554, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2022.12.001 [58] E. Sencan, D. Kulkarni, A. K. Coskun, and K. Konate, “Analyzing GPU utilization in HPC workloads: Insights from large-scale systems,” in Practice and Experience in Advanced Research Computing (PEARC ’25) . Association for Computing Machinery, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3708035.3736010 [59] F. Antici, A. Borghesi, and Z. Kiziltan, “Online job failure prediction in an HPC system,” in Euro-Par 2023: Parallel Processing Workshops . Springer, 2023, arXiv:2308.15481. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.15481 [60] F. Antici, M. Seyedkazemi Ardebili, A. Bartolini, and Z. Kiziltan, “An online algorithm for power consumption prediction of HPC workload,” 

Future Generation Computer Systems , 2025. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X25003590 [61] M. Molan, M. S. Ardebili, J. A. Khan, F. Beneventi, D. Cesarini, A. Borghesi, and A. Bartolini, “Graafe: Graph anomaly anticipation framework for exascale hpc systems,” Future Generation Computer Systems , vol. 160, pp. 644–653, 2024. [Online]. Available: https: //www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167739X24003327 [62] Qwen Team, “Qwen3 technical report,” https://github.com/QwenLM/ Qwen3, 2025, accessed: 2026-06-27. VERIFY exact variant (e.g. Qwen3 35B-A3B MoE). [63] OpenAI, “GPT-OSS: Open-weight reasoning models,” https://openai. com/index/introducing-gpt-oss/, 2025, accessed: 2026-06-27. 1

APPENDIX ABENCHMARK QUERIES AND ANSWERS 

This appendix lists the 14 end-to-end queries. TABLE I: The 14 end-to-end analytics queries (Q1–Q14) used in the evaluation. Each requires both correct retrieval and a correct visualisation/statistic. 

Id Query 

Q1 How many nodes are there in M100? Q2 Retrieve the total power consumption for node 900 from 1 June 2022 20:00 to 23:59 and plot the time series. Q3 Retrieve GPU-0 utilisation for nodes 900 and 920 on 1 June 2022 from 08:00 to 15:00 and create a line plot comparing the nodes. Q4 Retrieve the inlet temperature for all nodes on 1 June 2022 between 08:00–09:00 and create a histogram of the temperature distribution. Q5 Retrieve ambient temperature for nodes 301 and 318 on 1 June 2022 from 08:00–15:00 and create a single comparative line plot. Q6 Retrieve temperature and power for node 900 on 1 June 2022 (full day) and create a dual-axis plot over time. Q7 Compute the coefficient of variation of GPU utilisation for jobs 3423336, 4835969, 3776044 over their whole duration and create a comparative bar chart. Q8 Get the total CPU and GPU hours consumed on the morning of 1 June 2022 and create a pie chart of the breakdown. Q9 For the top-3 longest single-node jobs on 1 June 2022, retrieve their power consumption, create a comparative line plot, and report min/max/avg power. Q10 Retrieve the average system-level CPU and GPU utilisation on 1 June 2022 between 15:00–16:00 and create a side-by-side bar chart. Q11 Retrieve the daily average temperature from the weather plugin for the first week of June 2022 and compare it with the same period of the previous month using a dual-axis plot. Q12 Get the number of jobs executed each day over 1–10 June 2022 and plot it over the 10 days. Q13 For node 900 on 1 June 2022, get ambient temperature, system CPU, GPU-0–4 utilisation, and total power from 12:00 to 14:00 and visualise a heatmap correlation matrix. Q14 Fetch power consumption and users on 1 June 2022 and create a box plot of the top-10 users by number of jobs and average power consumption. 

APPENDIX BDEEP CODE AGENT PERFORMANCE 

Figure 1 showcases the end-to-end analytical output gen-erated entirely by the system. Subfigure 1a (Q4) presents the inlet temperature distribution across the Marconi100 system, revealing a pronounced peak at 23–24°C (61,775 readings), a complete absence of readings in the 31–39°C range, and a small cluster of outlier sensors registering 40–43°C (361 total readings). This histogram not only summarizes the thermal state but also enables anomaly detection. Subfigure 1b (Q6) displays the time-series correlation between total power con-sumption and ambient temperature for Node 900, highlighting a strong diurnal pattern and a transient event at around 06:30 UTC. Subfigure 1c (Q9) compares the average power profiles of the top three longest-running single-node jobs, annotated with summary statistics (min, max, avg, and active window) for each, allowing operators to identify resource-intensive workloads and optimize scheduling. Additional plots are available in the public repository at GitLab. 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Fig. 1: Comprehensive Analysis of Marconi100 on June 1, 2022, generated by EXASAGE Reflect Agent with Qwen3.6-35B-A3B with Deep Code Agent. (a) Q4 - Inlet temperature distribution, highlighting peak range, absence of mid-range readings, and outlier sensors. (b) Q6 - Node 900 power and ambient temperature over time, revealing diurnal correlation and a transient event. (c) Q9 - Comparative power profiles of top three longest-running jobs, with annotated statistics.