Title: DI-Bench: Systematically Generating In-Domain Data Intelligence Benchmarks for Enterprise Agents

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.05776v1

Published Time: Wed, 09 Sep 2026 00:19:41 GMT

Number of Pages: 19

Markdown Content:
# DI-Bench: Systematically Generating In-Domain Data Intelligence Benchmarks for Enterprise Agents 

Jiangyun Zhang, Kristen Surrao, Torpong Nitayanont, Yupei Zhang, Roopali Singh , Zhiyu Chen , Julia Huang , Zhou Tang ,

Shayan Ali Akbar , Omar Alonso , Erwin Cornejo , Yuan Li , Yi Zhang 

Amazon.com  

> Correspondence: zjiangyu@amazon.com

Abstract 

Evaluating enterprise agents on domain-specific benchmarks is critical, yet public benchmarks rarely evaluate whether agents can integrate business knowledge with ana-lytical computation, and constructing such benchmarks manually is costly. We present DI-Bench, a pipeline for generating realistic benchmarks for data intelligence (DI), the prac-tice of extracting insights from large volumes of enterprise data. To emulate realistic DI tasks that require both computation and knowl-edge retrieval, DI-Bench builds an artifact link-age graph over data tables, dimensions, met-rics, and documents to form questions involv-ing structured data and associated knowledge. Ground truth answers are derived via query execution, followed by LLM question gen-eration and validation. Applied to two pub-lic datasets, the pipeline produces a 731-task benchmark covering knowledge retrieval, ana-lytical computation, and rule-grounded reason-ing. To show the discriminatory capability and difficulty of the benchmark, we evaluate four models, revealing a substantial finding: models achieve only 32% accuracy when doing com-putational tasks where retrieved business rules modify the computation. 

1 Introduction 

LLM-based agents are increasingly deployed for enterprise data intelligence (DI), answering business questions that require retrieving knowl-edge, querying relational databases, and applying business-specific rules. Consider a business ana-lyst asking: “What percentage of customer-support tickets met their resolution-time commitment last month?” A naive agent architecture is not going to be sufficient because simply subtracting each ticket’s opening time from its closing time is not enough. It must first retrieve the applicable service-level rules: premium customers have shorter resolu-tion targets, the clock pauses while a ticket is wait-ing for the customer, and weekends are excluded for plans without 24-hour support. The agent must then query ticket histories and customer-plan data, apply the correct rule to each ticket and compute eligible resolution time. Answering the question therefore requires combining retrieved business rules with analytical data and computation; ignor-ing the rules would produce an incorrect result. Evaluating agents on this sequence of tasks from knowledge retrieval, data querying, business rule understanding and downstream analytical tasks de-mands benchmarks that test this full stack, but exist-ing benchmarks each cover only part of it. Text-to-SQL benchmarks like Spider (Yu et al., 2018) and BIRD (Li et al., 2023) provide the question and any required knowledge inline, so agents never retrieve from a separate corpus. Spider 2.0 (Lei et al., 2025) uses per-task documents, which specify formulas or thresholds the gold SQL implements, but each task names the document it needs, and the documents are authored for that one task rather than as a cor-pus the agent must navigate. Data-analysis bench-marks such as InfiAgent-DABench (Hu et al., 2024) broaden task coverage but operate on a single data table per task with no document corpus. Document-grounded financial QA benchmarks (Islam et al., 2023; Chen et al., 2021) require retrieving from filings, but these documents are data sources for numerical values rather than natural language rules that govern computation over a database. Tool-use benchmarks like τ -bench (Yao et al., 2024) test rule-following on API calls, with rules given in-context and no analytical computation over data. Concurrent data-science and enterprise-data-agent benchmarks (Jing et al., 2025; Sahu et al., 2025; Ma et al., 2026; Yang et al., 2026; Abaskohi et al., 2026; Mo et al., 2026) address different task types, includ-ing modeling, insight discovery, cross-system in-tegration, end-to-end analytics, deep research, and GUI pipeline completion, rather than retrieving and applying business knowledge during analysis. Table 1 summarizes these benchmarks. arXiv:2609.05776v1 [cs.AI] 4 Sep 2026 Task Types Construction Method                                                                  

> SQL Querying Document QA Numeric Computation
> (e.g., point query, comparison)
> Analytical Reasoning
> (e.g., trend, stats)
> Document Retrieval Document Alters Answer Q&A Generation Quality Check Spider ✓✗✓✗✗✗MMBIRD ✓✗✓✗✗✗MMSpider 2.0 ✓✗✓✗✗✓M>L M
> τ-bench ✗✓✓✗✗✓M>L MInfiAgent-DABench ‡✗✗✓✓✗✗L>M M, L FinanceBench ✗✓✓✗✓✓T>M MAutoBencher †✗✓✓✗✗✗LM, L
> DI-Bench ‡✓✓✓✓✓✓G>T>L M, L

Table 1: Comparison of DI-Bench against benchmarks for analytical / tool-using agents. Symbols on benchmark names indicate the released artifact: † pipeline only; ‡ both pipeline and fixed dataset; no symbol means dataset only. The document retrieval column indicates whether the agent must retrieve the relevant document. The document alters answer column specifies if the answer correctness relies on the document. The pair ✗ / ✓ for these two columns (no retrieval, document needed) appears when the document affects the answer but is given to the agent up front, rather than retrieved. Construction method: M = manual, L = LLM, T = template, G = graph; “ >” orders components by contribution. 

A second line of work addresses the cost of man-ual benchmark construction. LLM-driven gener-ation (Li et al., 2025) constructs both questions and answers with an LLM, providing no formal guarantee of answer correctness. In multi-hop text QA, Min et al. (2019) showed that nominally multi-hop benchmarks were often answerable from a sin-gle hop, motivating generation pipelines that struc-turally guarantee multi-hop necessity. 2WikiMulti-HopQA (Ho et al., 2020) composes questions from Wikidata triples via typed graph traversal, while MuSiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022) uses counterfactual checks to verify that each evidence hop is required. These multi-hop text QA efforts, however, operate over unstructured text only: their graphs link enti-ties from a knowledge corpus rather than database tables and rule documents, and verification targets evidence necessity rather than the value of a com-puted answer. The latter matters for analytical ques-tions, where a document can be cited yet leave the numeric answer unchanged. While recent progress in retrieval and text-to-SQL has substantially im-proved individual capabilities, it remains unclear whether agents can correctly integrate retrieved business knowledge into downstream analytical computation. Moreover, enterprise deployments rely on organization-specific metrics and business logic that evolve over time and differ substantially across domains. A benchmark built for one com-pany does not transfer to another, and even within one company it goes stale as definitions are re-vised. A team deploying an agent therefore needs to generate a benchmark from its own database and business documents, update the benchmark as metrics and rules change, rather than reuse a static, general-purpose test set. This motivates a bench-mark generation pipeline that any organization can apply to its own domain. We address this gap with DI-Bench, an end-to-end pipeline for generating verifiable benchmarks for data intelligence agents operating over both re-lational databases and unstructured business knowl-edge. By combining programmatic execution, auto-mated validation, and realistic enterprise artifacts, DI-Bench produces benchmark tasks with deter-ministic ground truth while reducing manual bench-mark construction effort. Our contributions are 1. DI-Bench , a pipeline for generating data intelligence benchmarks from structured databases and business knowledge sources. 2. Demonstration on a generated bench-mark spanning Brazilian e-commerce and Czech retail banking, producing 731 validated tasks across nine analysis types that require retrieval, computa-tion, and business-rule reasoning. 3. An empirical analysis of enterprise agents. Across models, DI-Bench reveals consistent performance degradation on tasks requiring integrating retrieved business rules with analytical computation. 

2 Problem Setting 

DI-Bench targets questions such as the customer-support example from Section 1: “What percentage of customer-support tickets met their resolution-time commitment last month?” This percentage cannot be computed correctly from ticket times-tamps alone. The agent must query ticket histo-ries and customer-plan data, retrieve the applica-ble service-level rules, and apply those rules be-fore aggregating the result. More generally, DI-Bench studies settings in which answering a busi-ness question requires both query execution over relational data and retrieval-augmented generation over documents containing computation-relevant rules (Lewis et al., 2020; Guu et al., 2020). We assume two inputs: 1. A relational database with a known schema, including tables, columns, and foreign keys. In the running example, the database contains ticket histories and customer service plans. 2. A knowledge base (KB) of rule documents 

containing business definitions, thresholds, and conditional overrides that affect a met-ric’s computation. In the running example, the applicable resolution-time target may depend on the customer’s service plan and weekend-exclusion rule. The KB also includes a metric catalog with formulas and sample SQL tem-plates. In our demonstration, these documents are LLM-generated augmentations grounded in the database schema (Appendix B.1). The critical property is information scattering: no single artifact contains everything needed to an-swer a question correctly. For example, the metric catalog defines Customer Satisfaction (CSAT) as the share of reviews scoring 4 or 5 stars, but a sep-arate rule document specifies that neutral (3-star) reviews must be excluded from the denominator. Without retrieving that rule, the computed answer deviates by several percentage points, making each task genuinely discriminative. 

3 Methodology 

DI-Bench generates benchmark tasks through five stages: (1) construct a graph that links structured data to the unstructured documents that affect its interpretation, (2) sample subgraphs from the graph as task skeletons, (3) execute SQL and tool(s) to compute gold answers, (4) generate natural lan-guage questions backward from those answers, and (5) validate quality. Figure 1 provides an overview. 

3.1 Artifact Linkage Graph 

To guarantee that each task genuinely tests doc-ument retrieval, the dependencies between docu-ments and computations are formalized as a typed 

artifact linkage graph (ALG). Such tasks that in-volve both document retrieval and analytical com-putations are common in real enterprise tasks, but current benchmarks lack reliable methods to gen-erate them. The graph immediately shows which unstructured documents map to which structured                    

> Edge Meaning
> metric →table Metric formula uses columns from table table →dimension Table has column usable as a fil-ter/grouping dimension table →table Tables can be joined rule →metric Rule document changes this met-ric’s computed answer metric →metric Composite metric uses another as a component rule →dimension Rule applies only when a dimen-sion takes a specific value
> Table 2: Edge types in the artifact linkage graph. The rule →metric edge is key: it connects unstructured docu-ments to the structured computations they modify.

tables and metrics, allowing us to generate tasks that meaningfully involve both skills. 

Graph Structure. The ALG contains four node types: tables, metrics, rules, and dimensions. Six edge types capture dependencies between struc-tured data and business knowledge (Table 2). The key edge is rule →metric , which records that a doc-ument modifies the computation of a metric. 

Construction. Edges among structured artifacts are extracted directly from schemas and metric definitions. Rule-related edges require interpret-ing natural language documents; we use an LLM (DeepSeek V3.2) to identify which metrics a docu-ment modifies and whether it applies conditionally to specific dimension values. 

Imperfect Graph Extraction. The pipeline does not assume perfect rule–metric extraction. Can-didate links are evaluated through counterfactual checks during benchmark generation. Counterfac-tual checks assess whether the inclusion of the rule changes the SQL or answer. These checks help fil-ter spurious rule–metric associations and improve benchmark quality. Imperfect extraction therefore primarily affects coverage rather than correctness (Appendix H). 

Why a graph? The graph captures dependencies between business documents and the computations they influence, enabling systematic generation of tasks that genuinely require both data access and business knowledge, rather than tasks where a doc-ument is nominally attached but does not affect the answer. Because a rule →metric edge is defined by the rule’s causal effect on the computation rather Figure 1: The DI-Bench pipeline. From a database and knowledge base, the pipeline (1) constructs an artifact linkage graph connecting metrics to required tables and governing rule documents, sampling connected subgraphs as task skeletons, (2) computes gold answers via query execution, (3) generates natural language questions backward from the answers, and (4) applies automated validation filters to verify each task. 

than surface simil arity in wording, the graph se-lects answer-changing rules far more reliably than semantic-similarity or random pairing (See analy-sis in Appendix C). 

3.2 Subgraph Sampling 

The pipeline samples connected subgraphs from the ALG. Each subgraph provides a task skeleton that fixes the metric, data sources, dimensions, and business rules, but not their concrete values. Each skeleton yields multiple benchmark tasks by vary-ing filters, time windows, and analysis types. 

Enumeration. Starting from each metric node, the pipeline expands along graph edges to collect required tables, dimensions, and modifying rule documents. Valid connected subgraphs are then enumerated or sampled depending on dataset size and target task count, while respecting rule appli-cability and metric dependencies. 

Selection for quality and diversity. From the pool of valid candidate subgraphs, the pipeline se-lects the subset that will be instantiated as tasks, aiming for a set that is diverse in the metrics, rules, and dimensions it covers rather than one that re-peats similar combinations. Selection uses Max-imal Marginal Relevance (MMR; Carbonell and Goldstein, 1998), which scores each candidate on semantic coherence, rule coverage, and join com-plexity, then greedily balancing quality against dis-tance from already-selected subgraphs. A post-selection pass ensures every metric and rule docu-ment appears at least once (Appendix D). 

Minimum coverage augmentation. The target minimum per analysis type is configurable. After the initial generation round, the pipeline identifies types below the target, samples additional com-patible subgraphs, and reruns question generation, SQL execution, answer enrichment, and validation. A candidate is retained only if its gold answer can be reproduced by re-executing its stored SQL. In our demonstration, this augmentation adds 23 tasks and raises counterfactual, decomposition, and sig-nificance testing to at least 10 tasks in each domain. 

Example In the running example from Section 1, the sampled subgraph would involve the metric for ticket resolution-time; the connected rules for pre-mium customers, the clock pausing rule, and week-end exclusion; the tables containing ticket histories and customer service plans; and the resolution-date dimension used to restrict the computation to the previous month. 

3.3 Ground Truth Computation 

Since an agent is scored against the gold answer, a reliable benchmark depends on that answer being correct. Rather than have a model produce it, DI-Bench computes each gold answer by executing SQL against the real database, making it determin-istic and correct by construction. Each subgraph, after fixing dimension values and the analysis type, yields concrete tasks whose gold answers are com-puted using the following two steps: 

Step 1: SQL parameterization. Each metric in the catalog has a SQL template with placeholders for dimension filters (e.g., state , start_date ), which are substituted with concrete values drawn from the data. Each rule document is associated with a structured SQL modification, such as an additional WHERE or HAVING clause, that encodes its effect on metric computation. These modifica-tions are generated by LLM with human expert verification. These modifications are applied to the metric’s base SQL, and the gold answer is produced by executing the query on database. 

Step 2: Analysis-type enrichment. Depending on the assigned analysis type (e.g., trend, compar-ison, ranking), a post-processing step transforms the raw SQL result into a structured gold answer. For instance, a trend task runs the query over con-secutive periods to identify direction, while a com-parison task computes a p-value from two group distributions. Nine analysis types are supported (Appendix A), each drawn from a compatibility set determined by the subgraph’s dimension types, where temporal dimensions support trend analy-sis and spatial or categorical dimensions support comparison and ranking. In the business analyst example from Section 1, we might add on the task of comparing the percentage of customer-support tickets meeting their resolution-time commitment last month to the month before that (a comparison analysis type). 

3.4 Backward Question Generation 

With the gold answer computed, an LLM (DeepSeek V3.2) generates a natural language question that would elicit that answer, follow-ing the answer-conditioned question-generation paradigm (Du et al., 2017). The prompt provides the metric name, gold answer, analysis type, and required rule documents. The model produces a question resembling what a business stakeholder would ask, without exposing database internals or hinting at which documents to consult. Because the answer is already known to be correct, the LLM’s only job is natural phrasing and poor phrasing is caught by validation. 

3.5 Automated Validation 

Prior to inclusion in the benchmark, each generated question-answer pair is subjected to a two-stage validation pipeline: 

Stage 1: Programmatic Filters. The first stage applies deterministic, regex-based checks for struc-tural defects and content-level issues without LLM inference. Checks cover structural integrity (e.g., flagging leakage of internal identifiers and degen-erate short questions), dimension sanity (e.g., re-jecting tasks where a datetime field was mistakenly treated as a categorical segmentation), answer com-pleteness (e.g., verifying that a valid, scorable gold answer is present), and column name naturalization (e.g., replacing schema identifiers with natural lan-guage). A task passes this stage only if zero issues are detected. 

Stage 2: LLM Quality Scoring. Candidates that clear the programmatic stage are then scored by an LLM judge (Zheng et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2023) (DeepSeek V3.2) across eight binary quality dimen-sions covering objectivity, leakage, naturalness, rel-evance, format alignment, correctness, reasoning, and scope consistency. A task is admitted only if all eight dimensions pass. Tasks failing only on phrasing-related dimensions are automatically rewritten and re-scored before final filtering. In Appendix E, we report the audit against human review, which shows that admitted tasks from the LLM judge achieve 99% average pass rate across all dimensions on evaluated datasets. 

4 Experiments 

Demonstration datasets. We apply DI-Bench on two public relational datasets spanning dis-tinct industries. The first is the Olist Brazilian E-Commerce dataset (Olist and Sionek, 2018) consist-ing of 9 tables (orders, items, payments, reviews, products, sellers, customers, and geolocation) cov-ering roughly 100K orders across all 27 Brazilian states. The second is the PKDD’99 Czech financial dataset (Berka, 2000), modeled as the bank ˇCeská Banka : 8 tables (accounts, clients, dispositions, transactions, orders, loans, cards, and districts) cap-turing retail banking activity. It stores dates as integers and distributes data across more tables re-quiring additional joins, both of which increase task difficulty. For each domain we construct a knowl-edge base of 29 metric definitions and 17 business-rule documents (thresholds, exclusions, weighting Model BR CZ All Turns                  

> Claude Opus 4.6 59.2 55.7 57.9 5.5 DeepSeek V3.2 56.1 42.6 50.9 11.5 Claude Haiku 4.5 52.8 42.9 49.0 5.5 Qwen3-80B 53.0 39.7 47.9 5.2
> Table 3: Agent accuracy (%) and efficiency on DI-Bench. BR = Brazilian E-Commerce (449 tasks), CZ = Czech Financial (282 tasks), 731 total. Avg. Turns = mean LLM calls per task (max 20).

formulas, and conditional overrides), from which DI-Bench builds an artifact linkage graph of 71–76 nodes and 168–191 edges (Appendix H). The two domains differ in schema shape, terminology, and rule structure, testing the pipeline’s transferability. All documents and metrics are fictional and do not represent any real organization. 

Benchmark composition. DI-Bench contains 731 tasks: 449 from Brazilian e-commerce and 282 from Czech retail banking. These tasks passed the automated validation, which rejects 21% of candi-dates at Stage 1 and 26% of the remainder at Stage 2. Minimum-coverage augmentation contributes 23 of these tasks, including 4 Brazilian decompo-sition tasks and 19 Czech tasks (2 counterfactual, 9 decomposition, and 8 significance-testing). The augmentation raises counterfactual, decomposition, and significance testing to at least 10 instances per domain. All aggregate and per-type results below use the complete 731-task benchmark. 

4.1 Setup 

To show that DI-Bench is challenging and can discriminate among model capabilities, we eval-uate agents using various models on it. Agents are equipped with tools for SQL execution and knowledge base retrieval. The database schema is provided in the system prompt. Agents interact through the Bedrock Converse API with native tool use and a maximum of 20 turns per task. We evalu-ate Claude Opus 4.6, Claude Haiku 4.5, DeepSeek V3.2, and Qwen3-80B, with temperature set to 0 and maximum output tokens of 4096. Scoring uses exact match with task-specific tolerance rules. 

4.2 Model Performance on DI-Bench Analysis. Opus achieves the highest overall accu-racy (57.9%), followed by DeepSeek V3.2 (50.9%), Haiku (49.0%), and Qwen3-80B (47.9%). The gap between BR and CZ remains approximately 10 percentage points across models, reflecting the Czech dataset’s less familiar banking terminology. DeepSeek requires more interaction steps (11.5 turns on average versus approximately 5 for the other models), indicating lower tool-use efficiency. 

Knowledge-to-Computation Gap. We partition tasks into three incremental groups (Figure 2): 

Knowledge (knowledge-base questions answered through retrieval alone, N = 137 ); Knowledge + Analytics (retrieve a metric definition and compute it over the database, N = 419 ); and Knowledge + Analytics + Rule Modification (additionally re-trieve and apply a rule that modifies how the metric is computed, N = 175 ). These task types are gen-erated from different subgraph structures. Averaged across the four models, accuracy drops from 82% on Knowledge tasks to 50% on Knowl-edge + Analytics and further to 32% on Knowledge + Analytics + Rule. This decline reveals a substan-tial knowledge-to-computation gap: all four mod-els can often retrieve the relevant business knowl-edge, yet struggle to correctly incorporate it into downstream computation. The trend is consistent across all evaluated models, indicating a systematic limitation that is not captured by retrieval-only or text-to-SQL benchmarks. Section 5 uses matched variants to isolate rule application. 

Task type difficulty. Accuracy varies by analysis type on the 731-task benchmark (Table 4). Rank-ing and point query remain difficult because every row in the result must match exactly. Minimum-coverage augmentation raises counterfactual, de-composition, and significance testing to at least 10 tasks per domain; these results remain descriptive because the cells are still small. In contrast, tasks requiring only a directional or binary judgment (threshold, trend, comparison) score 43–81%. 

4.3 Failure Analysis 

Manual inspection of Claude Opus 4.6 errors re-veals two dominant failure modes. In the first, the agent retrieves the relevant metric but never incor-porates the associated rule knowledge into its SQL, as seen on a query requiring the on-time-delivery SLA where the agent omitted the one-day grace period, producing systematically incorrect defect counts. In the second, the agent retrieves and ac-knowledges the correct rule in its reasoning yet executes SQL identical to the naive version, leav-ing the answer unchanged. Both modes confirm that the benchmark’s primary signal is not whether the agent can locate the relevant rule but whether it Opus 4.6 DeepSeek V3.2 Haiku 4.5 Qwen3-80B           

> 020 40 60 80 100
> Accuracy (%)  89 76 85 78 57 50 45 46 35 33 30 30
> Knowledge Knowledge + Analytics Knowledge + Analytics + Rule Modification

Figure 2: Knowledge vs. Knowledge-grounded analytical tasks across models. Models score highest on Knowledge 

tasks, lower once Analytics is added, and lowest when a retrieved rule must further modify the computation. The resulting performance drop reveals a persistent knowledge-to-computation gap: retrieving business knowledge is largely solved, but correctly applying that knowledge during computation remains a major challenge. 

Task Type BR (449) CZ (282) N Acc N Acc 

Ranking 92 14 53 29 Knowledge retrieval 69 87 68 78 Threshold crossing 81 78 42 43 Point query 54 28 48 20 Trend analysis 70 78 8 47 Comparison 30 81 33 55 Significance testing 32 58 10 80 Counterfactual 11 5 10 10 Decomposition 10 0 10 10 

Table 4: Task volume and accuracy ( %) by types, av-eraged across the four models. Knowledge retrieval, comparison, threshold, and trend are easier (binary or single-fact match); point query and ranking require ex-act match across multiple rows; counterfactual and de-composition are hardest, requiring multi-rule reasoning.                   

> Model Rule Oracle No rule Opus 4.6 35.0 37.3 53.6 DeepSeek V3.2 34.0 31.4 54.3 Haiku 4.5 30.0 29.4 49.3 Qwen3-80B 31.0 32.7 54.3 Average 32.5 32.7 52.9

Table 5: Accuracy (%) on 175 rule-grounded tasks. Task content and answer format are fixed across conditions. 

correctly applies it during computation, with addi-tional failure cases discussed in Appendix K. 

5 Ablation and Robustness Analyses 

Rule application. We construct matched variants for 175 rule-grounded tasks, holding the metric, di-mension, time window, analysis type, and answer format fixed. The results are shown in Table 5. The standard condition requires retrieving and apply-ing the rule, the oracle condition provides the rule directly, and the no-rule condition uses the corre-sponding standard metric. Oracle access changes average accuracy by only +0 .2 points (32.5% to 32.7%), whereas removing the rule requirement raises accuracy by 20.4 points (32.5% to 52.9%). Within threshold_crossing (N = 35 ), accuracy likewise rises from 62.1% to 77.9% without the rule, indicating that rule application rather than retrieval is the primary bottleneck. 

Generator and LLM judge sensitivity. On 87 valid paired examples with the same task skeletons, Qwen3-80B and DeepSeek-generated questions re-ceive similar mean quality scores under an indepen-dent Claude Sonnet 4.6 LLM judge (79.9% versus 79.6%). Across four validator judges, precision is 94–96% and recall is 79–93% against the same bal-anced human-labeled sample. These checks bound but do not eliminate the shared-model confound; Appendix E.4 provides details. 

6 Conclusion 

We presented DI-Bench, a transferable pipeline for generating in-domain benchmarks that evalu-ate agents on data-intelligence tasks requiring both knowledge retrieval and analytical computation. By linking structured databases with unstructured business documents and computing gold answers through programmatic execution, DI-Bench pro-duces realistic benchmark tasks with determinis-tic ground truth. Demonstrated on two public do-mains, the resulting 731-task benchmark reveals a substantial knowledge-to-computation gap in all four evaluated models: while retrieval-only tasks reach 82% accuracy, performance drops to 32% when retrieved business knowledge must be incor-porated into computation. These findings suggest that retrieving business knowledge is not the pri-mary challenge for enterprise agents, but correctly grounding it in downstream tasks remains a major bottleneck. More broadly, DI-Bench provides a scalable framework for evaluating agentic capabil-ity as business logic, metrics, and data evolve. Limitations 

The pipeline is demonstrated on two domains (e-commerce and banking); broader validation across additional industries would strengthen the trans-ferability claim. Future work could evaluate the benchmark under alternative retrieval systems and more complex agent architectures. The business-rule documents and metric catalogs used in our demonstration are synthetic augmenta-tions rather than artifacts from a real enterprise. We made this design choice because we are not aware of any publicly available dataset that simultane-ously provides relational data, business-rule doc-umentation, and permission for open benchmark release. The generated artifacts are grounded in the underlying schemas and are designed to simulate realistic business rules, metric definitions, thresh-olds, exclusions, and conditional overrides. Con-sequently, the benchmark is intended to approxi-mate realistic enterprise analytical pipelines rather than reproduce the exact business processes of any specific organization. Nevertheless, the generated artifacts may not fully capture the ambiguity, incon-sistency, evolving governance, and cross-team de-pendencies commonly present in production busi-ness documentation, which motivates evaluation on more realistic enterprise documentation. Additionally, scoring is based on exact match and does not award partial credit for correct rea-soning with minor computational errors. Finally, although the 731-task benchmark includes at least 10 counterfactual, decomposition, and significance-testing tasks per domain ( N =21 /20 /42 overall), these cells remain too small for strong inferential comparisons by analysis type. 

References 

Amirhossein Abaskohi, Tianyi Chen, Miguel Muñoz-Mármol, Curtis Fox, Amrutha Varshini Ramesh, Éti-enne Marcotte, Xing Han Lù, Nicolas Chapados, Spandana Gella, Christopher Pal, et al. 2026. Dr-bench: A realistic benchmark for enterprise deep research. In International Conference on Learning Representations , volume 2026, pages 6727–6795. Petr Berka. 2000. Guide to the financial data set. In 

PKDD2000 Discovery Challenge .Jaime Carbonell and Jade Goldstein. 1998. The use of mmr, diversity-based reranking for reordering doc-uments and producing summaries. In Proceedings of the 21st Annual International ACM SIGIR Confer-ence on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , pages 335–336. Zhiyu Chen, Wenhu Chen, Charese Smiley, Sameena Shah, Iana Borova, Dylan Langdon, Reema Moussa, Matt Beane, Ting-Hao Huang, Bryan R Routledge, et al. 2021. Finqa: A dataset of numerical reasoning over financial data. In Proceedings of the 2021 Con-ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 3697–3711. Xinya Du, Junru Shao, and Claire Cardie. 2017. Learn-ing to ask: Neural question generation for reading comprehension. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 1342–1352. Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasu-pat, and Mingwei Chang. 2020. Retrieval augmented language model pre-training. In International confer-ence on machine learning , pages 3929–3938. PMLR. Xanh Ho, Anh-Khoa Duong Nguyen, Saku Sugawara, and Akiko Aizawa. 2020. Constructing a multi-hop qa dataset for comprehensive evaluation of reasoning steps. In Proceedings of the 28th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics , pages 6609– 6625. Xueyu Hu, Ziyu Zhao, Shuang Wei, Ziwei Chai, Qianli Ma, Guoyin Wang, Xuwu Wang, Jing Su, Jingjing Xu, Ming Zhu, et al. 2024. Infiagent-dabench: Eval-uating agents on data analysis tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.05507 .Pranab Islam, Anand Kannappan, Douwe Kiela, Re-becca Qian, Nino Scherrer, and Bertie Vidgen. 2023. Financebench: A new benchmark for financial ques-tion answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.11944 .Liqiang Jing, Zhehui Huang, Xiaoyang Wang, Wen-lin Yao, Wenhao Yu, Kaixin Ma, Hongming Zhang, Xinya Du, and Dong Yu. 2025. Dsbench: How far are data science agents from becoming data science experts? In International Conference on Learning Representations , volume 2025, pages 32597–32649. Fangyu Lei, Jixuan Chen, Yuxiao Ye, Ruisheng Cao, Dongchan Shin, Hongjin Su, Zhaoqing Suo, Hongcheng Gao, Wenjing Hu, Pengcheng Yin, et al. 2025. Spider 2.0: Evaluating language models on real-world enterprise text-to-sql workflows. In Inter-national Conference on Learning Representations ,volume 2025, pages 28691–28735. Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-täschel, et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in neu-ral information processing systems , 33:9459–9474. Jinyang Li, Binyuan Hui, Ge Qu, Jiaxi Yang, Binhua Li, Bowen Li, Bailin Wang, Bowen Qin, Ruiying Geng, Nan Huo, et al. 2023. Can llm already serve as a database interface? a big bench for large-scale database grounded text-to-sqls. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36:42330–42357. Xiang Li, Farzaan Kaiyom, Evan Liu, Yifan Mai, Percy Liang, and Tatsunori Hashimoto. 2025. Autobencher: Towards declarative benchmark construction. In In-ternational Conference on Learning Representations ,volume 2025, pages 94357–94386. Yang Liu, Dan Iter, Yichong Xu, Shuohang Wang, Ruochen Xu, and Chenguang Zhu. 2023. G-eval: Nlg evaluation using gpt-4 with better human align-ment. In Proceedings of the 2023 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing ,pages 2511–2522. Ruiying Ma, Shreya Shankar, Ruiqi Chen, Yiming Lin, Sepanta Zeighami, Rajoshi Ghosh, Abhinav Gupta, Anushrut Gupta, Tanmai Gopal, and Aditya G Parameswaran. 2026. Can ai agents answer your data questions? a benchmark for data agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.20576 .Sewon Min, Eric Wallace, Sameer Singh, Matt Gardner, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2019. Compositional questions do not necessitate multi-hop reasoning. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics ,pages 4249–4257. Ying Mo, Yu Bai, Dapeng Sun, Yuqian Shi, Yukai Miao, Li Chen, and Dan Li. 2026. Entworld: A holistic environment and benchmark for verifiable enterprise gui agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.17722 .Olist and André Sionek. 2018. Brazilian e-commerce public dataset by olist. Gaurav Sahu, Abhay Puri, Juan A Rodriguez, Amirhos-sein Abaskohi, Mohammad Chegini, Alexandre Drouin, Perouz Taslakian, Valentina Zantedeschi, Alexandre Lacoste, David Vazquez, et al. 2025. In-sightbench: Evaluating business analytics agents through multi-step insight generation. In Interna-tional Conference on Learning Representations , vol-ume 2025, pages 4683–4715. Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022. MuSiQue: Multi-hop questions via single-hop question composition. 

Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 10:539–554. Yibo Yang, Fei Lei, Yixuan Sun, Yantao Zeng, Cheng-guang Lv, Jiancao Hong, Jiaojiao Tian, Tianyu Qiu, Xin Wang, Yanbing Chen, et al. 2026. Aid-abench: Ai data analytics benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.15636 .Shunyu Yao, Noah Shinn, Pedram Razavi, and Karthik Narasimhan. 2024. τ -bench: A benchmark for tool-agent-user interaction in real-world domains. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.12045 .Tao Yu, Rui Zhang, Kai Yang, Michihiro Yasunaga, Dongxu Wang, Zifan Li, James Ma, Irene Li, Qingn-ing Yao, Shanelle Roman, et al. 2018. Spider: A large-scale human-labeled dataset for complex and cross-domain semantic parsing and text-to-sql task. In Proceedings of the 2018 conference on empiri-cal methods in natural language processing , pages 3911–3921. Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, et al. 2023. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena. Advances in neural information processing systems , 36:46595–46623. Appendix A Analysis Type Definitions 

Each analysis type corresponds to a composition of primitive operators (Retrieve, Filter, Aggregate, Compare, Rank, Temporal, Test). Table 6 defines the 9 types used in DI-Bench. 

B Knowledge Base Examples 

Rule document (excerpt). The following is a shortened version of the Active Seller Definition Rule, an example rule document:     

> Rule Title: Active Seller Definition Rule
> Effective Date: 1 July 2018
> Core Rule: A seller is classified as Active if and only if both conditions are met within a trailing 90-day window: (1) Volume: at least one deliv-ered order; (2) Quality: average review score ≥
> 3.0 across all historical reviews. Sellers meeting volume but not quality are classified as “On Pro-bation” and excluded from Active Seller counts.

Metric catalog entry (excerpt).       

> MV-SEL-001: Active Seller Count (Tier L2)
> Formula: COUNT(DISTINCT seller_id) WHERE delivered AND avg_review ≥3.0
> Tables: order_items, orders, order_reviews

B.1 Rule Document Provenance 

The rule documents and metric catalogs used in our demonstration are LLM-generated augmentations, not real enterprise documents. Given that the two underlying datasets are public databases with no accompanying rule documentation, we augment the datasets with realistic rule documents. 

Generation process. For each domain, an LLM (DeepSeek V3.2) was prompted with the database schema, a metrics catalog (also LLM-generated from the schema), and supporting context about the fictional company. The LLM was instructed to produce standalone rule documents whose rules would change the computed value of specific met-rics if not consulted. Each document was generated independently in a single LLM call. 

Generation prompt (metric rules, abbreviated).                                                      

> Rule Document Generation Prompt (abbreviated) System: You are a business analyst writing internal rule documents for {company}.
> Write astandalone rule document that defines rules which modify how business metrics are computed. The rule should contain information NOT already in the metrics catalog. The goal is that someone computing the metric would get aWRONG answer if they don’t consult this rule document. Include: arealistic effective date, named owner, version, core rules/thresholds, scope (affected metrics), exceptions, and arationale section.
> Context provided:
> — Metrics catalog — — Supporting documents —

Descriptive statistics. Each domain has 17 rule documents, averaging 750–820 words per docu-ment (Table 7). Each document falls into one of six rule types that govern how it modifies a metric: 

definitional (defines what counts, e.g., active seller criteria), exclusionary (removes rows, e.g., exclude neutral reviews), temporal/versioned (rule changes on a date, e.g., SLA change in January 2018), con-ditional (applies only to a dimension slice, e.g., São Paulo orders), privacy guardrail (suppresses small-n results), and override (replaces a default formula under specific conditions). All six types are represented in both domains. 

Example rule document (excerpt). The follow-ing is an abbreviated version of the Outlier Exclu-sion Rule from the Brazilian e-commerce domain:           

> Outlier Exclusion Rule for Delivery Time Metrics (excerpt) Rule Title: Outlier Exclusion Rule for Delivery Time Metrics
> Effective Date: October 1, 2018
> Owner: Ana Silva, Head of Logistics Analytics
> Core Rule: Any delivered order with a calculated delivery duration exceeding 60 calendar days is clas-sified as a data anomaly and excluded from metric computation.
> Scope: On-Time Delivery Rate, Average Delivery Time, and any L3+ composite metric incorporating delivery time.
> Exception: Orders exceeding the 60-day threshold are still counted as late for On-Time Delivery Rate— the exclusion applies only to the average used in internal benchmarking, not the binary late/on-time classification.
> Expected Impact: ∼0.3% of orders affected; in-cluding these outliers skews Average Delivery Time upward by ∼1.5 days.

C Ablation: Impact of Artifact Linkage Graph 

To isolate the graph’s contribution to rule selection, we hold each task’s skeleton fixed—the metric, di-mensional slice, and time window—and vary only 

which rule is paired with the metric . For every Type Operators Example Question Gold Answer (example) 

Knowledge retrieval Ret What constitutes an outlier that should be excluded when calculating the average delivery time?    

> “Delivery duration exceeding sixty (60) calendar days is excluded as a data anomaly.”

Point query Ret → Fil → Agg For our Q2 2018 performance review, what percentage of transactions were paid with credit cards?   

> [{payment_type: credit_card, pct: 80.08}]

Trend analysis Ret → Tmp → Agg Show me the monthly trend of our av-erage delivery time throughout 2017.  

> {direction: increasing, total_change_pct: 32.1, peak_period: 2018-01}

Comparison Ret → Fil → Agg → Cmp Which of these two states — PR or AL — had a faster average delivery time for shipped and delivered orders during Q3 2017?     

> {group_a: PR, group_b: AL, value_a: 10.7, value_b: 28.52, higher: AL}

Ranking Ret → Fil → Agg → Rnk Which 5 states have the highest num-ber of active sellers?      

> [{SP: 1638}, {PR: 316}, {MG: 220}, {SC: 172}, {RJ: 175}]

Significance testing Ret → Fil → Agg → Tst Are the average installment counts for orders paid by credit card and bo-leto in the first quarter of 2018 sta-tistically significantly different from each other?      

> {significant: true, p_value: 0.0, test_name: Welch’s t-test (two-tailed)}

Threshold crossing Ret → Fil → Agg → Cmp Did the average delivery time for cus-tomers in Acre exceed 20.0 days?    

> {value: 19.79, threshold: 20.0, result: FAIL}

Counterfactual Ret → Fil → Agg → Cmp What’s the average revenue we gen-erated per unique customer in São Paulo state, assuming we could ex-tend our operations there starting from January 2017?  

> [{customer_state: SP, revenue_per_customer: 129.41}]

Decomposition Ret → Fil → Agg → Grp Can you break down the Order De-fect Rate by seller state for the first half of 2018, showing which geo-graphic areas are contributing the most to our overall defect rate? 

> [{BA: 18.18}, {CE: 0.0}, {DF: 13.21}, {ES: 18.18}, . . . ]

Table 6: Analysis type definitions with operator compositions, example questions, and a representative gold answer (Ret = Retrieve, Fil = Filter, Agg = Aggregate, Tmp = Temporal, Cmp = Compare, Rnk = Rank, Tst = Test, Grp = Group). Gold answers range from a single value or pass/fail verdict to multi-row breakdowns that must match exactly, which explains the accuracy ordering in Table 4. 

Brazilian Czech 

Number of rule documents 17 17 Mean word count 821 756 Min / max word count 654 / 1132 592 / 928 Median word count 847 721 Rule types represented 6 6

Table 7: Descriptive statistics for the LLM-generated rule documents. “Rule types represented” shows the count out of 6 possible types (definitional, exclusionary, temporal, conditional, privacy, override). 

rule-impacting task ( N =175 ), we re-pair the met-ric under three strategies and re-execute: Graph 

uses the original graph-selected rule; Semantic uses the nearest other rule by embedding cosine sim-ilarity; Random uses a uniformly random other rule. A pairing is discriminative if applying the rule changes the computed answer relative to the base (no-rule) query. Because the skeleton is iden-tical across conditions, the comparison isolates the 

Pairing strategy Discriminative validity 

Graph 82% Semantic 29% Random 22% 

Table 8: Discriminative validity under three rule-pairing strategies on identical task skeletons ( N =175 rule tasks, both domains pooled). A pairing is discriminative if applying the rule changes the computed answer. The graph selects rules that genuinely modify the compu-tation ∼3× more often than random pairing; semantic similarity helps only marginally, since a topically re-lated rule need not alter the metric’s value. 

effect of rule selection alone. The graph-selected rule changes the answer in 82% of cases, versus 29% for semantic-similarity pairing and 22% for random pairing. The graph is not perfect—for some dimensional slices even a relevant rule leaves the answer unchanged (e.g., a delivery-outlier rule has no effect on a region with no outlier deliveries)—but it identifies discrimina-tive pairings far more reliably than the alternatives. Semantic similarity offers only a small gain over random, confirming that topical relatedness does not ensure a rule causally modifies the metric: the graph’s typed rule →metric edges, not embedding proximity, are what capture this relationship. 

D Subgraph Scoring and Selection Details 

After enumerating structurally valid subgraphs (Section 3.2), the pipeline must select a diverse, high-quality subset. This involves two steps: (1) scoring each candidate, then (2) selecting via MMR to balance quality against diversity. 

D.1 Step 1: Quality Scoring 

Each candidate subgraph S receives a composite quality score q(S) as a weighted average of five independent scorers: 

q(S) = 

> 5

X

> i=1

wi · si(S) (1) The five scorers capture complementary factors: • Semantic affinity (weight 0.25): Does the metric–dimension pairing make sense? For example, “delivery time by customer state” is natural, but “delivery time by payment install-ment count” is not. Although the graph con-strains which dimensions are reachable from a metric’s tables, not every reachable pairing is semantically meaningful; as such, this scorer downweights implausible ones. • Rule diversity (weight 0.20): Prefers subgraphs using less-frequently-selected rule documents, via diminishing returns:  

> 1
> |RS|

P 

> r∈RS
> 11+ nr

, where nr counts prior selections of rule r and RS is the set of rule documents. • Metric rarity (weight 0.20): Analogous to rule diversity but for metrics—prefers sub-graphs involving metrics that have appeared less often. • Dimension cardinality (weight 0.20): How many distinct values does the chosen dimen-sion have in the data? Dimensions with more values offer richer slicing possibilities, so the scorer increases monotonically: single-value dimensions score 0.1 (trivial questions), 2 val-ues score 0.5 (only binary comparisons), 3– 5 values score 0.8, and >5 values score 1.0. Date/timestamp columns (used for trend anal-ysis) default to 0.7 because their effective car-dinality depends on time-window granularity rather than the raw number of distinct dates. • Join complexity (weight 0.15): Rewards sub-graphs requiring more table joins, scaling lin-early with the number of tables and capping at 1.0: one table scores 0.25, two tables 0.5, three tables 0.75, and four or more tables 1.0. This ensures the benchmark includes multi-join tasks. Weights were determined by manual inspection: we adjusted until top-ranked candidates consis-tently matched subgraphs that a domain expert identified as realistic analysis questions. 

D.2 Step 2: MMR Selection 

High-quality candidates may still be redundant (e.g., many subgraphs testing the same metric with different dimension values). To ensure diver-sity, we use Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR). Given candidate pool C and target count k, we greedily build the selected set S:

c∗ = arg max 

> c∈C\S



(1 − λ) · q(c) + λ · min  

> s∈S

dJ (c, s )



(2) where the first term favors quality and the second favors diversity. The distance dJ is the Jaccard distance over node sets: 

dJ (a, b ) = 1 − |Va ∩ Vb||Va ∪ Vb| (3) with Va = metrics (a) ∪ tables (a) ∪

dimensions (a) ∪ rules (a). Two subgraphs sharing no nodes have dJ = 1 (maximally diverse); identical subgraphs have dJ = 0 .We set λ = 0 .3, favoring quality over diversity. This balances two failure modes: λ too low pro-duces redundant subgraphs testing the same metric– dimension pairs; λ too high selects low quality subgraphs. For the first selection ( S = ∅), the di-versity term defaults to 1.0, so the highest-quality candidate is chosen first. After MMR selection, a coverage pass adds any missing metrics or rule doc-uments (those not yet represented in S) by selecting their highest-scoring subgraph. In our pipeline, when setting the number of tar-get questions to 100 , ∼93% of metric–rule links (averaged across datasets) are retained as parts of questions. The coverage loss is concentrated in metrics with many associated rules: once 2–3 sub-graphs are selected for such a metric, the diversity term suppresses additional ones in favor of under-represented metrics. 

D.3 Subgraph Examples 

Table 9 presents subgraph examples from the Brazilian E-commerce domain and Table 10 for the Czech Financial domain. 

E Validation Details 

E.1 Stage 1: Programmatic Validation 

The first stage applies deterministic checks. A task passes only if all checks return zero issues; failing tasks are flagged and annotated with the specific issues detected, but are excluded from LLM evalu-ation and the final benchmark. 

Structural integrity. A set of regex patterns detects common generation artifacts: timestamp columns used as categorical filters (e.g., a question filtering on a datetime field as though it were a discrete value), raw column names leaked into the question text, and internal database identifiers such as primary or foreign key fields exposed in the phrasing. Questions shorter than 20 characters are also flagged. 

Answer completeness. Each task must have a valid answer. For SQL-based tasks, this requires a non-empty list of result dictionaries containing no error markers. For knowledge-only tasks, a substan-tive string answer of more than 10 characters must be present. For all non-knowledge tasks, the sys-tem additionally verifies that a scorable expected answer can be derived from the gold data, ensuring downstream automated scoring is feasible. 

E.2 Stage 2: LLM-Based Quality Evaluation 

Tasks (question-answer pairs) that pass program-matic validation are evaluated by an LLM judge (DeepSeek V3.2 via Amazon Bedrock) across eight dimensions with a binary score (0 or 1 each) and one-sentence justification per dimension. A task is admitted only if all dimensions pass. The prompt is as follows:                  

> LLM Validator Prompt
> You are evaluating aquestion-answer-SQL triple from a benchmark dataset. ANALYSIS TYPE: {analysis_type} QUESTION: {question} ANSWER: {gold_answer} SQL: {gold_sql or ‘NONE (knowledge-base task, no SQL needed)’} {type_specific_context}
> For each dimension, first write one sentence of reasoning, then give your score (1=pass, 0=fail). Only score 0 for CLEAR violations. When in doubt, pass. 1. OBJECTIVITY : Does the question have ex-actly one correct answer given the data? 2. ANSWER_LEAKAGE : Is the question free of hints that reveal the answer? 3. NATURALNESS : Does the question sound like a real person would ask it? 4. ANSWER_RELEVANCE : Does the answer address the question’s core intent? Structured tool outputs are valid. 5. FORMAT_ALIGNMENT : Rankings must specify count. Breakdowns, significance, and trend always pass. Threshold: FAIL if question asks about multiple items (format holds one value only). 6. SQL_CORRECTNESS : Does the SQL fetch appropriate data? Pass if SQL is NONE, if no date is mentioned and no date filter exists, or if tool-based SQL fetches raw data without performing the final computation. 7. LOGICAL_REASONING : Is the answer in-ternally consistent? 8. GOLD_SCOPE_MATCH : Does the answer contain ONLY data that the question asks about? FAIL if question asks about one entity but answer contains others. PASS if question asks for a breakdown and answer has multiple rows.

E.3 Human-in-the-Loop Review 

To assess benchmark quality, an expert annotator reviewed a stratified sample of 100 tasks across the same eight dimensions used by the automated validator. Table 11 compares three views: the hu-man ground-truth pass rate across all 100 tasks, the validator’s pass rate on those same tasks, and the human-verified quality of the 25 tasks the validator admits (all-eight-pass). 

E.4 Generator and Judge Sensitivity 

On a generator-swap sample with fixed skeletons and SQL-computed gold answers, Qwen3-80B-and DeepSeek-generated questions receive sim-ilar mean quality scores under an independent Analysis Type Metric(s) Tables dimension Rules Score                      

> Point query Late Delivery Rate by Carrier Segment orders, customers, sell-ers, order_items customer_state (spatial) Active Seller Definition 0.958 Trend analysis Average Delivery Time orders order_purchase _timestamp (tem-poral) Outlier Exclusion (Deliv-ery) 0.807 Comparison CLV, Revenue per Order, CSAT customers, orders, or-der_items order_status (cat-egorical) CLV Lifespan, CSAT Cal-culation, Revenue Recog-nition, . . . (11 total) 0.898 Ranking Seller Fulfillment Score order_items, orders, order_reviews order_status (cat-egorical) Seller Fulfillment Score Weights 0.884 Significance testing Payment Method Distribution order_payments payment_type (categorical) Undefined Payment Ex-clusion 0.879 Threshold crossing Unique Buyer Count orders, customers order_status (cat-egorical) Customer Deduplication 0.846 Counterfactual Category Growth Rate order_items, products, orders order_status (cat-egorical) CSAT Calculation, Multi-Item Attribution 0.849 Decomposition Seller Concen-tration, Active Seller Count, GMV order_reviews, orders, order_items order_status (cat-egorical) Active Seller Definition, Revenue Recognition, . . . (6 total) 0.834

Table 9: Representative selected subgraph for each analysis type from the Brazilian E-commerce domain. Scores reflect the composite quality metric q(S) from Equation 1. 

Claude Sonnet 4.6 judge (79.9% versus 79.6%), although individual dimensions move in both di-rections: SQL correctness decreases from 51% to 34%, while format alignment increases from 86% to 99%. The raw artifact contains 87 valid paired examples. Separately, four judges evaluated the same balanced human-labeled sample. Mean preci-sion is 94–96%, while recall ranges from 79–93%; Opus has n = 98 because two outputs could not be parsed. The judge is used for task admission, not for grading agent answers, which are scored against SQL-computed gold. These analyses bound but do not eliminate the shared-model confound. 

F Comparison between Agents and Human Experts 

In order to interpret agent accuracy on DI-Bench, we need a human reference point. Without one, we cannot tell whether agents’ low performance on certain tasks reflects an agent-human gap or a task that humans also find difficult. We therefore sample 5 questions from each of the Knowledge ,

Knowledge + Analytics , and Knowledge + Analyt-ics + Rule tiers and ask two business-intelligence experts to answer them. The experts were able to solve 13 out of 15 tasks (87%) correctly, whereas the agents reach 73% (Opus), 67% (Haiku), 60% (Qwen), and 53% (DeepSeek) on the same samples. This shows that the benchmark differentiates agent capabilities and is not merely filled with tasks that are impossible to solve. The gap instead reflects tasks that humans can solve but agents struggle with. 

G Benchmark Construction Time 

Our proposed pipeline substantially reduces the human effort required to construct a benchmark. We estimate that fully manual construction takes an expert roughly 35 minutes per task: subgraph creation (3 min), finding an example SQL query (4 min), writing and verifying the rule-modified SQL (15 min), phrasing the question (5 min), specifying the answer format (3 min), and a final check (5 min), or about 420 hours for a 731-task set. With the pipeline, the only remaining human effort is ver-ification, which, on average across all task types, takes roughly 1.8 minutes or 22 hours for the entire benchmark, which is a significant time reduction from 420 hours required to construct the bench-mark manually. 

H Artifact Linkage Graph Statistics 

This appendix provides statistics on the number of nodes and edges of each defined type in the Analysis Type Metric(s) Tables dimension Rules Score 

Point query Transaction Vol-ume trans operation (cate-gorical) Account Opening Date Rule 0.866 Trend analysis Balance Volatility (CV) trans trans.date (tempo-ral) Small Sample Suppres-sion 0.801 Comparison Credit Risk Score loan, trans, account, district, client district region (spatial) Credit Risk Score Weights 1.000 Ranking Average Account Balance trans, account k_symbol (cate-gorical) Fee Structure Change 1996, Inter-Bank Transac-tion Flag 0.863 Significance testing Standing Order Value by Type order k_symbol (cate-gorical) Standing Order Amount Validation 0.858 Threshold crossing Debt Service Coverage Ratio trans, loan, account k_symbol (cate-gorical) Cohort Maturity Thresh-old, NPL Denominator 0.849 Counterfactual Card Penetration Rate card, disposition, ac-count card type (cate-gorical) Card Eligibility Defini-tion, Date Conversion 0.889 Decomposition Credit Risk Score, DSCR, Balance Volatil-ity, NPL Ratio district, loan, account, trans, client district region (spatial) Credit Risk Weights, Co-hort Maturity, Crisis Ad-justment 1997, . . . (11 to-tal) 0.886 

Table 10: Representative selected subgraph for each analysis type from the Czech Financial domain. 

artifact linkage graphs, for both datasets. These are provided in Table 12. 

I Example Tasks 

We present one representative task for each of the nine analysis types, drawn verbatim from the bench-mark (questions, required rules, and gold answers unedited). The mark is Claude Opus 4.6’s result. 

Point Query Question: What is the average loan size and total number of loans for our 60-month active loans in the South Moravia region? 

Required rules: cohort maturity threshold; small-sample suppression 

Gold: [{region: south Moravia, duration: 60, avg_loan_size: 228422.0, loan_count: 30}] 

Opus: ✓

Ranking Question: Which 5 customer states had the longest average delivery times in days for orders shipped during 2017 and the first eight months of 2018? 

Required rules: outlier exclusion (delivery); on-time delivery SLA 

Gold: [AM: 25.65, AP: 24.76, AL: 24.12, RR: 23.76, PA: 23.0] (avg delivery days) 

Opus: ✓

Comparison Question: Compare the Seller Concentration In-dex (HHI) for ‘computers_accessories’ against ‘cds_dvds_musicals’ across all delivered and shipped orders. Which has higher concentration risk? 

Required rules: multi-item attribution; privacy/con-fidentiality 

Gold: {value_a: 0.03, value_b: 1.0, higher: cds_dvds_musicals} 

Opus: ✓

Trend Analysis Question: Show me the monthly trend for our average delivery time throughout 2017 — any noticeable patterns or fluctuations? 

Required rules: outlier exclusion (delivery) 

Gold: {direction: increasing, total_change_pct: 32.1, peak_period: 2018-01} 

Opus: ✓

Threshold Crossing Question: Did our average Seller Ship-Out Time in the state of Bahia exceed the 60-hour target? 

Required rules: São Paulo SLA change (January) 

Gold: {value: 58.33, threshold: 60.0, result: FAIL} 

Opus: ✓Dimension Human Validator Admitted (100) (100) (25) 

Obj. 87% 64% 100% Leakage 100% 100% 100% Natural. 100% 100% 100% Relevance 92% 83% 100% Format 98% 77% 96% SQL Corr. 94% 48% 100% Reasoning 100% 74% 100% Scope 95% 72% 99% Average 96% 77% 99% 

Table 11: Human-in-the-loop validation (100-task strat-ified sample). Human : expert-annotator pass rate (ground truth); Validator : LLM validator pass rate on the same tasks; Admitted : human-verified pass rate of the 25 tasks the validator admits (all eight dimensions pass from the validator). The validator is stricter than the human across dimensions, so what it admits is near-perfect (99% average). Its conservatism reduces yield (admits 25% of candidates) but indicates high precision among validator-admitted tasks.                  

> Significance Testing Question: Are the average installment counts for orders paid by credit card vs. boleto in Q1 2018 sta-tistically significantly different?
> Required rules: outlier exclusion (delivery)
> Gold: {significant: true, p_value: 0.0, test: Welch’s t-test (two-tailed)}
> Opus: ✓
> Counterfactual Question: What’s the average revenue per unique customer in São Paulo state, assuming we could extend operations there starting from January 2017?
> Required rules: none (control)
> Gold: [{customer_state: SP, revenue_per_customer: 129.41}]
> Opus: ✓
> Knowledge Retrieval Question: How do we calculate Total Deposit Vol-ume from the transaction data?
> Required rules: transaction net-flow rule
> Gold: “Total Deposit Volume must only sum amounts where type = ‘PRIJEM’ .” (must-include:
> type = ‘PRIJEM’ )
> Opus: ✓

Brazilian Czech 

Table nodes 9 8Metric nodes 29 29 Rule nodes 17 17 Dimension nodes 21 17 Total nodes 76 71 metric →table edges 61 45 table →dimension edges 21 17 table →table edges 9 8rule →metric edges 79 79 metric →metric edges 9 11 rule →dimension edges 12 8Total edges 191 168 

Table 12: Artifact linkage graph statistics for both do-mains.        

> Decomposition (hardest type)
> Question: Break down the Order Defect Rate by seller state for H1 2018, showing which geographic areas contribute most to the overall defect rate.
> Required rules: on-time delivery SLA; São Paulo SLA change (January)
> Gold: [BA: 18.18, MS: 66.67, ES: 18.18, MA: 16.67, . . . ] (18 states, odr_pct)
> Opus: ✗computed defect counts without the SLA grace period, so most rows are off.

J Per-Model Accuracy by Analysis Type 

Table 13 breaks down accuracy by model and anal-ysis type over the full 731-task benchmark (BR and CZ combined). The difficulty ordering is consis-tent across models: all four exceed 75% on knowl-edge retrieval and 60% on threshold crossing and trend analysis, but fall below 35% on ranking, point query, counterfactual, and decomposition. Model separation is largest on the harder types, e.g. on point query, Opus (34%) clearly leads Qwen3-80B (18%) and Haiku (22%)—confirming that the dis-criminative signal concentrates in tasks requiring exact multi-row matching and multi-rule reasoning. 

K Detailed Failure Cases 

To make concrete what a task expects and why it is hard, we walk through three Claude Opus 4.6 failures from the Brazilian e-commerce domain. All three are tasks where the agent successfully 

retrieved the governing rule, as verified in the tool trace, yet still produced a wrong answer isolating rule application as the bottleneck rather than re-Analysis Type N Opus Haiku Qwen DeepSeek 

Ranking 145 23 20 11 23 Knowledge retrieval 137 89 85 78 76 Threshold crossing 123 72 61 65 67 Point query 102 34 22 18 23 Trend analysis 78 78 63 78 78 Comparison 63 79 59 65 65 Sig. testing 42 71.4 64.3 57.1 59.5 Counterfactual 21 9.5 4.8 9.5 4.8 Decomposition 20 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 

Overall 731 57.9 49.0 47.9 50.9 

Table 13: Per-model accuracy (%) by analysis type on the full 731-task benchmark (Brazilian e-commerce and Czech financial combined). N is the number of tasks of each type. 

trieval. Expected values are the deterministic SQL-computed gold; predicted values are taken verbatim from the agent’s <answer> tag. 

Case 1 — Threshold crossing flips on a one-day grace period ( DI-BR-0117 )Question: For delivered orders in the first half of 2018, did the order defect rate for sellers in the Fed-eral District (DF) exceed 15.0%? 

Required rules: on-time delivery SLA; delivery out-lier exclusion 

Expected: {value: 14.46, threshold: 15.0, result: FAIL} 

Opus: ✗ {value: 16.40, threshold: 15.0, result: PASS} 

Why it is hard: The SLA rule classifies an order as late only if it arrives after the end of the next business day following the estimated date—a one-business-day grace period. Opus retrieved the rule but counted any delivery past the estimated date as a defect ( delivered_date > estimated_date rather than > estimated_date + 1 day ). The grace period removes just enough borderline-late orders to drop DF’s ODR from 16.40% to 14.46%—across the 15% threshold. Because the metric is compared against a threshold, a sub-two-point numeric error flips the categorical verdict from FAIL to PASS; the task is unforgiving of an approximately-right computation. 

Case 2 — Ranking requires a post-hoc privacy suppression ( DI-BR-0123 )Question: Which product categories have the highest concentration of sales among sellers? Provide a ranking of the top 5 categories by the Seller Concentration Index (HHI), considering only those where market dominance is most extreme. 

Required rules: multi-item attribution; data confidentiality 

Expected: [la_cuisine: 1.0, home_comfort_2: 1.0, fashion_sport: 1.0, cds_dvds_musicals: 1.0, arts_and_craftmanship: 1.0] 

Opus: ✗ [cds_dvds_musicals: 1.0, la_cuisine: 0.88, computers: 0.58, security_and_services: 0.54, flowers: 0.48] 

Why it is hard: An HHI of 1.0 means a category’s sales come from a single seller. The confidentiality rule requires suppressing data points derived from fewer than three unique sellers after the base metric is computed, and the multi-item attribution rule fixes how each order’s revenue is assigned to categories. Opus computed HHI correctly but never applied the suppression-and-tie logic, returning one HHI=1.0 category followed by lower-concentration ones, missing that several categories tie at the maximum 1.0 and that the ranking among ties is rule-governed. The rule operates as a post-processing layer applied 

after SQL aggregation, which the agent treated as irrelevant once it had numeric HHI values. 

Case 3 — Counterfactual demands two parallel computations ( DI-BR-0314 )Question: What would our On-Time Delivery Rate look like if we removed the grace period for all orders delivered in the first half of 2018, broken down by customer state? 

Required rules: delivery outlier exclusion; week/-timezone definition 

Expected (excerpt): AL: {strict: 72.73, with_grace: 74.68} , AM: {strict: 94.55, . . . } 

Opus (excerpt): ✗ BA: {strict: 81.29, with_grace: 82.85} , CE: {strict: 74.13, with_grace: 76.06} 

Why it is hard: The agent must compute the same metric twice: once with the grace period (the live rule) and once without (the counterfactual scenario), while applying the outlier-exclusion filter consistently to both. A single question thus requires two parallel, rule-aware computations over the same rows, and any inconsistency in how either rule is applied causes the per-state values to diverge from gold. Takeaway. All three failures share a structure: re-trieval succeeds, the base SQL is roughly right, but the rule-induced adjustment (a grace period, a sup-pression rule, a counterfactual rule swap) is either dropped or misapplied. This matches the aggregate finding (Section 4) that the with-rule analytical tasks are the benchmark’s primary discriminator. 

L Pipeline Reproduction 

DI-Bench takes a relational schema and tables, a metric catalog with executable SQL templates, and a policy-document corpus. Figure 3 docu-ments the implementation details: graph construc-tion, candidate-scoring weights, MMR selection, the base/rule-aware SQL record, validation inputs, rare-type augmentation, and stage commands. Ap-pendix E gives the complete validator prompt. 

Reproduction boundary. The listing is suffi-cient to reproduce the generation procedure, but not necessarily the exact task wording: LLM-backed stages depend on model availability and nonde-terministic decoding. The released configuration records model identifiers and decoding parameters, while non-LLM randomized stages use seed 42. A. Graph construction 

graph = Graph(nodes={table, metric, rule, dimension}) graph.add(schema_edges(schema)) # table-table and table-dimension graph.add(metric_edges(catalog)) # metric-table and metric-metric graph.add(infer_rule_links(documents, catalog)) # rule-metric and rule-dimension pool = connected_subgraphs(graph) pool = [g for g in pool if structural_constraints_hold(g)] 

B. Candidate scoring and selection 

weights = { semantic: .25, rule_diversity: .20, metric_rarity: .20, cardinality: .20, joins: .15 }quality = score_candidates(pool, weights) chosen = greedy_mmr(pool, quality, target=100, diversity=.30, seed=42) chosen = ensure_metric_and_rule_coverage(chosen, pool) 

C. SQL grounding and question generation 

for g in chosen: for kind in compatible_analyses(g): base_sql = instantiate_template(g.metric, g.dimensions, kind) rule_ops = extract_rule_operations( g.rules, allowed={filter, exclude, threshold, weight, override}) gold_sql = apply_operations(base_sql, rule_ops) base = enrich(execute(base_sql), kind) gold = enrich(execute(gold_sql), kind) if failed(gold) or (rule_ops and equivalent(base, gold)) :continue question = generate_question(g, kind, gold, documents) task = record(question, kind, g.id, base_sql, gold_sql, rule_ops, gold, g.rules) 

D. Validation, augmentation, and export 

if not programmatic_checks(task): continue judge_input = {question, gold, gold_sql, type_context(kind)} dimensions = {objectivity, leakage, naturalness, relevance, format, correctness, reasoning, scope_match} # Full prompt appears in the Validation Details appendix if all(binary_judge(judge_input, d) for d in dimensions): tasks.append(task) tasks = augment_to_minimum(tasks, unused=pool-chosen, minimum=10, seed=42) tasks = deduplicate(tasks, keys={task_id, subgraph_id}) export(tasks) 

E. Stage commands 

$ python kg_construction/extract_graph.py $ python kg_construction/extract_policy_edges_llm.py all --model deepseek.v3.2 $ python subgraph_sampling/sample_subgraphs.py --all --target 100 --seed 42 $ python task_generation/generate_tasks.py --all --seed 42 --use-llm $ python task_generation/enrich_tasks.py --all $ python task_generation/generate_questions.py --all --use-llm $ python task_generation/validate_questions.py --all --use-llm $ python task_generation/augment_rare_types.py --all --target 10 --use-llm 

Figure 3: Five-panel reference implementation: graph construction, weighted candidate selection, SQL grounding and backward generation, validation and export, and executable stage commands. Policy-bearing tasks are retained only when rule removal changes the executed answer.