PILLAR:
PRIVATE
INVERTED-INDEX
LEXICAL
LOOKUP FOR AUGMENTED RETRIEVAL
Truong Son Nguyen ∗
Department of Computer Science
Arizona State University
Tempe, AZ 85281, USA
snguye63@asu.edu
Daniel Blackley ∗
Department of Computer Science
George Mason University
Fairfax, VA 22030, USA
dblackle@gmu.edu
Ni Trieu
Department of Computer Science
Arizona State University
Tempe, AZ 85281, USA
nitrieu@asu.edu
Evgenios M. Kornaropoulos
Department of Computer Science
George Mason University
Fairfax, VA 22030, USA
evgenios@gmu.edu
ABSTRACT
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) hands the user’s query to whoever hosts the
corpus. We propose PILLAR, a Privacy-Preserving RAG (PPRAG) system based
on Private Information Retrieval (PIR) in which a client utilizes the k documents
most similar to their query from a server-held and publicly known corpus to respond
to their query, while the server learns nothing about the query, either its terms or its
access pattern. Prior PPRAG constructions rely on dense retrieval alone, translating
approximate nearest-neighbor search into many query-dependent rounds of PIR,
and pay for it in both latency and retrieval quality. PILLAR instead performs
private hybrid retrieval in two stages. A sparse stage issues a small, fixed number
of PIR queries against a carefully designed index of precomputed BM25 scores,
filtering the corpus down to candidates that share terms with the query without the
server ever seeing which terms these are. A dense stage then fetches only those
candidates’ document embeddings and re-ranks them locally, avoiding the many
costly PIR queries that private dense retrieval typically requires. We instantiate
PILLAR with two protocols that trade latency against retrieval quality, each built
on a different private rendering of lexical search. PILLAR-Bin bins posting
lists into a hash table and is a single-round design that achieves lower latency
than state-of-the-art private retrieval schemes. PILLAR-Tree turns block-max
pruning into an oblivious tree traversal combined with cuckoo hash tables and
achieves the highest retrieval quality at lower latency than state-of-the-art schemes.
1
INTRODUCTION
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is now the standard way to ground a Large Language Model
(LLM) in knowledge that is not in its parameters (Lewis et al., 2020; Gao et al., 2023), and it is the
mechanism major search engines rely on for AI summaries. A RAG pipeline consists of a client that
issues a query, a server that hosts a document corpus, and an LLM that generates an answer to the
client’s query by retrieving documents from the server to augment its generated response. This poses
a severe privacy risk, the query is handed, verbatim, to the server. Exposing a client’s query carries
real risk; search engine logs can trivially be used to identify clients (Barbaro and Jr., 2006), clients
disclose sensitive personal details to LLMs (Mireshghallah et al., 2024), and current models infer
identifiable information from very little text (Staab et al., 2024).
Privacy-Preserving RAG. A privacy-preserving RAG (PPRAG) protocol answers a client’s query
over a public corpus such that the server hosting the corpus learns nothing about the query.
∗Equal contribution
1
arXiv:2609.36326v2  [cs.AI]  30 Sep 2026


Due to the public nature of the corpus, such protocols are typically built on Private Informa-
tion Retrieval (PIR) (Chor et al., 1995), a cryptographic primitive that lets a client fetch a non-
encrypted item from a server without revealing which item was fetched. Existing PPRAG work
falls into two categories, dense and sparse retrieval, with the majority focusing on the former.
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
Latency (s)
0.54
0.6
0.66
0.72
0.78
Relevancy
MS MARCO Pareto Frontier
PILLAR-Bin (Ours)
PILLAR-Tree (Ours)
PACMANN
Pareto Frontier
Figure
1:
Pareto
between
a
state-of-the-art
private
dense
retrieval
method
PACMANN,
and our private hybrid retrieval
methods
(PILLAR-Bin
&
PILLAR-Tree). In MS MARCO,
our PILLAR-Tree (in orange)
dominates across all quality met-
rics, while our PILLAR-Bin (in
green) dominates in speed/latency.
Among dense retrieval protocols, Tiptoe (Henzinger et al.,
2023) privately searches over clustered embeddings, Com-
pass (Zhu et al., 2025) traverses an HNSW graph using Obliv-
ious RAM (ORAM), and PACMANN (Zhou et al., 2024b), the
current state-of-the-art (SOTA), has the client traverse an ap-
proximate nearest neighbor (ANN) graph. Sparse retrieval, by
contrast, is represented by Coeus (Ahmad et al., 2021), which
scores the query against a term-frequency matrix.
Limitations of Existing PPRAG. Existing PPRAG protocols
face two limitations: First, ANN traversal is adaptive; each
hop depends on the query, and the walk terminates once no
closer neighbors are found. Hiding the access pattern therefore
requires a fixed, query-independent schedule. On MS MARCO,
PACMANN requires 20 round trips per query yet achieves
only 0.266 MRR@10, compared to roughly 0.31 for a non-
private ANN baseline over identical embeddings Zhou et al.
(2024b). Second, existing protocols support only a single re-
trieval architecture, whereas real RAG deployments commonly
use hybrid architectures, with lexical scoring followed by com-
paring learned embedding similarities (See Appendix I.2 for
more details). The two architectures fail in complementary
ways: learned embeddings encode word meanings using their training data but fail when a query uses
the same word in a different context, while lexical scoring does not consider semantically relevant
words (Ma et al., 2021; Thakur et al., 2021b; Bruch et al., 2023). Used together, the methods mitigate
each other’s weaknesses. This points to a gap in PPRAG literature:
No PPRAG uses both sparse and dense retrieval architectures, and the single-
architecture alternatives pay for it in number of interactions and in answer quality.
Contributions. We present PILLAR, a new hybrid-retrieval1 PPRAG architecture that retains
the strengths while limiting the weaknesses of previous dense or sparse PPRAG protocols. PIL-
LAR achieves a "best-of-both-worlds" design, and we demonstrate its effectiveness with two new
PPRAG protocols: PILLAR-Bin and PILLAR-Tree. PILLAR-Bin uses lexical scoring func-
tions to resolve a query in a single round, achieving low latency. PILLAR-Tree adapts block-max
BM25 Broder et al. (2003); Ding and Suel (2011) to perform multiple rounds of increasingly accurate
retrievals, achieving unmatched quality compared to SOTA. We evaluate both the quality of the
answer and latency for PILLAR-Bin, PILLAR-Tree, and the SOTA PACMANN, and provide
an extensive evaluation in Section 5 and Appendix D.1. An indicative result is in Figure 1, which
shows the Pareto frontier over the Top-5 configurations for each method. Specifically, it captures the
trade-offs between the latency required to retrieve documents for a query (X-axis) and the Relevancy
of an LLM-generated answer to that query, augmented with those documents (Y-axis). The only
configurations on the frontier belong to either PILLAR-Bin or PILLAR-Tree, never once is
PACMANN better in either latency or Relevancy. In summary, our core contributions are as follows:
• Hybrid Retrieval Under PIR. We give the first PPRAG protocols that combine lexical and
semantic scoring, and prove that both PILLAR-Bin and PILLAR-Tree hide a client’s query
from a semi-honest server in the PIR-hybrid model.
• Comprehensive Evaluation. We benchmark both protocols against the SOTA, PACMANN, and
plot the best configurations of all three protocols using a Pareto frontier in Section 5.2, finding
that PILLAR accounts for 93% of the configurations on the frontier. We test on two standard
RAG datasets, MS MARCO Bajaj et al. (2018) and SciFact Wadden et al. (2020), reporting
retrieval quality, communication cost, and latency. All code for PILLAR-Bin is available at
1In standard literature, a “hybrid-retrieval RAG protocol” refers to a protocol that combines the scores from
both dense and sparse retrieval; here hybrid-retrieval refers strictly to the retrieval methods, not the final score
2


https://github.com/dkblackley/bi... Unlike PACMANN, which evaluates retrieval
alone, we also evaluate the end-to-end answers generated from the retrieved documents, using the
Retrieval Augmented Generation Assessment metrics faithfulness and answer relevancy Es et al.
(2025).
• A Low-Latency PPRAG Protocol. The fastest PACMANN configuration needs 0.293 s, while
PILLAR-Bin retrieves documents in as little as 0.098 s on MS MARCO, with comparable quality.
• A High-Quality PPRAG Protocol. The highest quality documents across the best configurations
are retrieved by PILLAR-Tree, with answer Relevancy 0.75. The PACMANN configuration that
finds the best documents achieves 0.72 answer relevancy but requires over 2× more latency.
2
BACKGROUND & PRELIMINARIES
Notation. A corpus C = {D1, . . . , Dn} is an ordered set of n documents. The index i of a document
Di ∈C is also referred to as a document’s identifier. An analyzer Analyze maps raw text to a finite
sequence of tokens called terms. The vocabulary V = S
D∈C Analyze(D) is the set of all unique
terms in a corpus. An embedding function Emb maps raw text to a d-dimensional dense vector.
With the term document embedding eD = Emb(D) ∈Rd, we refer to a document’s dense vector
representation. A query Q is raw text supplied by a client, so that Analyze(Q) = (w1, . . . , w|Q|) are
its query terms and eQ = Emb(Q) ∈Rd its query embedding. We sometimes abuse the notation Q
to denote both a sequence of terms and the index of documents to be returned through PIR. We make
this distinction clear by referring to the latter case as the PIR query.
Private Information Retrieval (PIR). There are multiple variants of PIR Chor et al. (1995); Kushile-
vitz and Ostrovsky (1997); Beimel et al. (2000) but we focus on Single-server PIR with preprocessing
designs Zhou et al. (2024a); Corrigan-Gibbs and Kogan (2020); Beimel et al. (2000). These PIR
protocols involve interactions between a stateful client clnt and a server srv, consisting of a (i)
preprocessing phase followed by a (ii) query phase. In the PIR preprocessing phase, srv’s input
is a publicly known C, which it sends to clnt, who initializes a private state. During the query
phase, clnt’s input is an index 0 ≤i ≤|C| (w.r.t. to C) and constructs a PIR query Q to retrieve
the requested document Di ∈C. clnt sends Q to srv and clnt uses the responses from srv and
his internal state to output Di. A PIR protocol is secure if srv does not discover anything about the
client’s input for the requested index i. Consistent with prior work Henzinger et al. (2023); Zhou
et al. (2024b), we consider a semi-honest srv, where srv follows the protocol but tries to recover i.
Privacy-Preserving Retrieval Augmented Generation (PPRAG) Functionality. A standard PIR
protocol is incompatible with PPRAG because a clnt takes query terms Q as input rather than
an index i, and outputs the documents most similar to Q rather than the single document at index
i, where similarity is measured by a function score(·, ·) mapping a (query, document) pair to a
score under some metric. For the cryptographic formalism, we consider the ideal two-party PPRAG
functionality, where the server and client both have input, but only the client has output, defined by
PPRAG(C, Q) =
 ⊥, Dk
. In words: srv takes in a public corpus C and outputs nothing (denoted
⊥), clnt takes as input a private Q and outputs k documents Dk ⊆C such that, for every D ∈Dk,
and every D′ ∈C \ Dk we have that: score(Q, D) ≥score(Q, D′). The new protocol PILLAR
in this work realizes this ideal functionality of PPRAG.
3
CHALLENGES OF PIR UNDER RAG ARCHITECTURE
This section discusses sparse and dense retrieval architectures for RAG with a public corpus, with
particular attention to the challenges that arise when scaling each to a PIR-based private analog.
3.1
SPARSE RETRIEVAL AND PRIVACY.
At a high level, sparse retrieval scores each document (via lexical scoring functions) by the query
terms appearing in it verbatim, weighting rare terms more heavily than common ones, and returns the
k highest-scoring documents. Some well-known lexical scoring functions are TF-IDF Robertson and
Zaragoza (2009), Okapi BM25 Robertson and Zaragoza (2009), and SPLADE Formal et al. (2021).
Specifically, each score computed for a term w ∈V in the document D is a function of the frequency
3


of w in D. To facilitate this, each document is modeled as a vector v over V whose entry for a term is
nonzero only if the document contains that V term (hence sparse, since a document uses only a small
fraction of the vocabulary). Scoring a single D against Q thus amounts to looking up vD’s entries at
the coordinates named by the query’s terms and summing them, i.e., a small set of index lookups on
vector vD, where the indices are exactly the sensitive input/query. The following exposition describes
techniques without privacy in mind (thus, the indices are visible to the server).
Inverted Indexes. An end-to-end PPRAG query under sparse retrieval requires srv to score Q
against every D ∈C and return only the k highest-lexical-scoring documents. Computing the lexical
score for every document is wasteful since many documents typically won’t contain any terms in the
query and will always score 0. A common way to filter out these documents is to organize documents
using an abstract data type called an inverted index. Inverted indexes are dictionaries that map each
term w ∈V to the set of documents in which w occurs, called the posting list. Retrieval protocols
built on an inverted index avoid this exhaustive scan: srv uses the inverted index to fetch the posting
list for each w ∈Q and scores Q against only the relevant documents that reside in the posting lists.
We discuss two methods for instantiating an inverted index in this context: bin-based and block-based.
Bin-based BM25. An inverted index can be instantiated as a hash table, where each hash table bin
stores the posting list for each hashed term. We refer to this simple approach as bin-based BM25.
At query time, srv hashes each w ∈Q to a bin, fetches the posting lists stored there, scores the
documents they contain, and returns the k highest-scoring ones to clnt. The challenges of applying
PIR on top of a bin-based BM25 are: 1 In non-privacy-preserving bin-based BM25, the clnt
receives the top-k documents that srv locally filtered across posting lists; however, in a PPRAG
rendition, the server does not see Q, thus, it cannot perform this task. 2 In non-privacy-preserving
bin-based BM25, to minimize collisions we need a large hash table; however, PIR computation
complexity scales superlinearly with the size of the hash table. This introduces a trade-off: a large
hash table yields fewer posting lists (i.e., less filtering) but increases PIR complexity, while a small
hash table yields more posting lists (i.e., more filtering) with faster PIR complexity.
Block-based BM25 Ding and Suel (2011). In a typical RAG deployment, clnt sends Q to srv
and receives only the k most similar documents in C w.r.t. Q. To speed up this search, srv can
efficiently dismiss documents that cannot reach the top-k. We now discuss one such strategy built on
the inverted index, Dynamic Pruning Turtle and Flood (1995); Broder et al. (2003). The underlying
intuition is as follows. Recall that a document’s D score is the sum of D’s per-term contributions
over the query terms, so for a “batch” B ⊆C of documents, taking the single largest contribution of
each w ∈Q across all documents in B and summing2 these maxima provides an upper bound for the
exact score of every document in B. If this over-approximation falls below the current top-k exact
score, the entire batch can be skipped without scoring any of its documents individually. Dynamic
Pruning realizes this idea as follows: At initialization, srv partitions all documents into blocks where
each one contains a fixed number of documents. For each block B and term w, srv precomputes
σw(B), the largest score between w and any document in B (thus, |V| scores per block). At query
time, srv retrieves the blocks for each w ∈Q and scores the first k documents arbitrarily to establish
a baseline threshold. It then proceeds block by block: since no document in B can score higher than
P
w∈Q σw(B), a bound below the kth best exact score seen so far rules out the whole block, which is
skipped, unscored. Blocks clearing the threshold are scored in full and the running top-k updated.
Once all blocks are traversed, srv returns the final top-k; we refer to this as Block-based BM25.
Applying PIR to this procedure is challenging: 1 The algorithm attempts to find the top scoring
documents but, given the lack of organization among blocks, the server needs to linearly scan all
blocks to identify the right ones. 2 In non-private Block-based BM25, srv tracks the kth best score
seen so far, a threshold that is query-dependent. Under PPRAG, srv never sees (sensitive) Q and
therefore cannot compute this threshold, let alone decide which blocks it prunes.
3.2
DENSE RETRIEVAL AND PRIVACY.
Whereas sparse retrieval matches on exact term overlap, dense retrieval matches on meaning, so
a document can rank highly without sharing a single word with the query. Dense retrieval maps
2Note that no document in B need actually attain this bound, since the per-term maxima may come from
different documents, e.g., D3 for q1, say, and D9 for q2.
4


documents and queries into a shared vector space in which semantically similar texts lie close
together Karpukhin et al. (2020); Murphy (2013). A popular measure of closeness is cosine similarity:
given a query embedding eQ ∈Rd and a document embedding eD ∈Rd, we compute cos(eQ, eD) =
(eQ · eD)/(∥eQ∥∥eD∥).
Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search. In a typical dense RAG deployment, clnt sends its query
embedding eQ to srv, which computes the cosine similarity against every document embedding
and returns the k closest. This is exactly k-Nearest Neighbor (NN) search Har-Peled et al. (1998),
at a cost of O(|C|d) per query. The common alternative is Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN)
search Karpukhin et al. (2020); Zhou et al. (2024b), which in one popular form Zhou et al. (2024b)
represents C as a graph3 whose nodes are documents and whose edges join embeddings of high cosine
similarity, reducing retrieval to a traversal toward increasingly similar documents rather than a full
scan. Dense retrieval poses its own challenges under PIR: 1 The graph traversal is query-dependent:
from an arbitrary starting node, srv scores eQ against the current node’s neighbors and moves to the
closest one, so which node is accessed at each step is determined by the query. Revealing this access
pattern would leak information about eQ. 2 The number of traversal steps also varies with the query,
since the search halts once it stops finding closer neighbors. This count is itself a function of eQ, so
revealing it would leak information about the query. A PPRAG-friendly ANN must therefore fix the
step count in advance, trading retrieval accuracy against cost on every query.
Properties of a Hybrid Retrieval Protocol. Sparse and dense retrieval succeed on complementary
dimensions. Sparse retrieval pinpoints domain-specific terms that embeddings often fail to represent,
while dense retrieval captures semantic relationships that exact lexical matching misses. A hybrid
PIR protocol should therefore combine both, inheriting A the low, fixed round complexity of sparse
search, B sparse retrieval’s ability to quickly dismiss documents with no lexical overlap with the
query, and C the semantic accuracy of dense embeddings.
4
PILLAR: PIR-Friendly HYBRID RETRIEVAL
This section presents our protocols PILLAR-Bin and PILLAR-Tree, both of which realize
PPRAG. Their design follows directly from the three properties a hybrid architecture should have,
stated at the end of Section 3. Regarding A , every adaptive component is removed. The number of
rounds and the size of every message depend only on publicly known parameters, never on Q, so the
communication pattern is fixed. For B , the crude part of sparse retrieval runs first on the server, and
the refined filtering stage on the client. Lexical scoring dismisses the bulk of C cheaply, leaving a
small candidate set for the expensive stage. C Semantic re-ranking is moved completely to clnt.
After the sparse stage, clnt fetches the candidates’ embeddings via PIR and ranks them locally,
recovering the accuracy of dense retrieval without srv ever learning Q. We provide the full protocols
for both PILLAR-Bin & PILLAR-Tree in Appendix E and the security analysis in Appendix G.
4.1
A SIMPLE BIN-BASED BM25
We discuss solutions for the two challenges identified for Bin-based BM25 in Section 3.1.
Solving Bin-Based BM25 Challenges. 1 Recall the first problem for Bin-Based BM25 was that, in
non-privacy-preserving Bin-Based BM25, srv would retrieve posting lists for each term w ∈Q and
score the documents in the posting lists, returning just the top-k highest-scoring documents. Scoring
documents requires access to Q, which srv does not see in a PPRAG protocol. To solve this, srv
will only return a fixed number of t documents per query term to clnt, who can locally re-rank
without revealing Q. To ensure the t returned documents are still relevant, we return documents
from a posting list that is sorted by frequency of the hashed term w ∈V used to retrieve the posting
list, and the t highest-frequency documents are returned. Empirical approaches for choosing t are
explored in Section 5. 2 Recall the trade-off: a large hash table keeps collisions rare but drives up
PIR complexity, while a small one requires less PIR operations but conflates unrelated terms into the
same bin. PILLAR-Bin uses only R ≪|C| rows and maps each term w to row H(w) (mod R)
3This converts a high-dimensional geometric search into a combinatorial one, with the geometry encoded
into the edge set rather than evaluated at query time.
5


Stage 1: Beam Search (Tree)
root
leaf
At each level, fetch children of
top W super-blocks via PIR.
Keep top-W leaves (beam frontier).
Stage 2: Sub-block Score Computation
Leaf block A
SB1
SB2
SB3 ✓
SB4
Leaf block B
SB5
SB6 ✓
SB7
SB8
Fetch sub-block W · |Q| ·
⌈|B|/s⌉rows via PIR.
Compute and Rank Sub-block score lo-
cally to select ks promising sub-blocks.
Stage 3: Client Local Ranking
Sub-block Document Embeddings
eD1
eD2 ⋆
eD3
eD4 ⋆
eD5
eD6
client: cos(eQ, eD)
Output: top-k doc IDs
Retrieve embeddings via PIR;
client ranks by cos(eQ, eD)
and returns final top-k results.
Top node
Retrieved node (beam)
Selected sub-block
Top-ranked document
Figure 2: Three-stage PILLAR-Tree protocol illustration. The interaction are all private under PIR.
under a public hash function H. Thus, clnt can compute which row to request, and PIR hides that
index from srv. R is also smaller than the vocabulary, so many terms share a row, and the postings
lists of all colliding terms are merged into it. Rows are truncated at t length, so, crucially, the order
of merging lists determines which documents survive truncation. Naively appending lists would
preserve the first list in full and cut off the last list entirely. PILLAR-Bin therefore interleaves lists
in a round-robin fashion, placing the jth document of the ith list at position (j −1)m + i when m
terms collide. Reading the first tm positions then yields the top t documents from each colliding list.
Finally, the srv omits duplicates when a document is contained in two colliding lists.
Final Design Description. At setup, srv computes the embedding eD ∈Rd of every D ∈C and
stores embeddings in place of documents, so that clnt can re-rank locally once retrieval completes,
i.e., the dense retrieval part of the hybrid design. It then builds the hash table as in non-private bin-
based BM25 and applies the two designs above, i.e., hashing over R rows and interleaving colliding
postings lists round-robin. The result is a PIR database of R rows, each holding exactly t embeddings
(after truncation) and hence t · d field elements4. Since a query contains several terms, retrieving
one row per term with independent PIR queries would cost |Q| separate protocol executions; we
instead use batched PIR, which packs multiple indices into a single query at sublinear amortized
cost per index Zhou et al. (2024b). The batch size is fixed to the padding bound of 3 rather than to
|Q|, so the query length is identical across executions and leaks nothing about how many terms the
client used. clnt issues one batched PIR query, decodes the t embeddings in each returned row, and
aggregates them into a candidate pool Dcand of at most t times the batch size, discarding duplicates
that arise when a document appears in several retrieved rows. The entire protocol is a single round,
and its message sizes depend on R, t, d, and the batch bound.
4.2
TREE-BASED BM25 (PILLAR-TR E E)
This section discusses how to solve the previously identified challenges for block-based BM25 in
Section 3.1 and provides the design principle for PILLAR-Tree.
Solving Block-Based BM25 Challenges. To resolve 1 , we organize the blocks recursively into a
tree whose leaves are the individual blocks and whose internal nodes each represent a super-block
spanning the documents of all blocks in their subtree. At every node we store an array of |V| entries,
where the i-th entry holds the maximum lexical score of term i over all documents in that super-block.
For full generality, we consider r-ary trees, i.e., branching factor r, so as to reduce the height of the
tree. Next, we descend the tree with a beam search Bisiani (1987) of width W, confine the next
level traversal to the children of the highest scoring W nodes. Since the previous level advances
only W super-blocks (and each super-block has r children), layer i considers only W × r candidate
super-blocks. For each candidate, the algorithm sums the upper bounds of the query terms in Q and
retains the W highest-scoring super-blocks of the level. It is worth noting that given that beam search
4Thus, all rows are indistinguishable in size regardless of how many terms collide in them.
6


is a heuristic technique, it doesn’t guarantee to find the true top-k blocks (but our experiments show
better-than-SOTA accuracy). Overall, the traversal descends ⌈logr(|C|/|B|)⌉levels and examines
at most W · r nodes per level, for a total of O

W · r · |Q| · logr
|C|
|B|

upper-bound array fetches.
The baseline, in contrast, scans blocks linearly and requires |Q| |C|
|B| array fetches, i.e., from linear
to logarithmic. Regarding 2 , the clnt proceeds interactively: at each level clnt retrieves via
PIR the relevant array entries from the candidate super-blocks that clnt already identified, sums
them locally to obtain the total upper bound for each candidate super-block, and uses the result to
select which super-blocks become candidates at the next level. Finally, the bottom level stores not the
embeddings themselves but the identifiers of the embeddings contained in each block. Retrieving
the embeddings therefore requires one additional round of PIR, after which the client performs the
dense retrieval step locally. Overall, the clnt performs logr
|C|
|B| PIR rounds, and at each round it
batches W · r · |Q| array indices to retrieve (here, we concatenate all arrays-of-upper-bounds of the
level into a single one). We apply four further optimizations to improve accuracy and performance.
First, at preprocessing time srv clusters the corpus so that each block contains mutually similar
documents. Second, each PIR entry at a given node B and word w stores the scores of w w.r.t. r
children of B rather than to B itself. At query time, this reduces the PIR cost from |Q|Wr queries
over a |V| × rℓ+1-sized child-level PIR database to |Q|W queries over a |V| × rℓ-sized current-level
PIR database. Third, we add a refinement layer below each leaf block, separate from the tree traversal.
Each leaf contains |B| documents and is partitioned into sub-blocks of s documents, giving branch
factor r⋆= ⌈|B|/s⌉. After the tree traversal filters the search space to W × |B| candidate documents,
the refinement layer selects the top ks sub-blocks, reducing the embedding-fetch cost from |B| × W
embeddings to ks × s. Finally, to avoid storing |V| mostly-zero upper bounds per super-block at
each level, we realize each level’s PIR database as a cuckoo hash table holding only non-zero entries,
trading m PIR queries per lookup for a substantial reduction in server storage and PIR cost (see
Appendix H). There are many parameters that affect search speed and quality, such as branching
factor, r, beam width, W, block size, |B|, etc. we study the effect and the interplay of the different
parameters in Appendix D.1. A high-level design of PILLAR-Tree is shown in Figure 2, where
we split the design of PILLAR-Tree into three stages: In Stage 1, the clnt traverses the tree
with beam search, using one PIR round per level, until it reaches W leaf blocks. In Stage 2, the
clnt retrieves via PIR the upper bounds of the sub-blocks of these leaf blocks, selects the top ks
sub-blocks, and obtains the identifiers of their embeddings. In Stage 3, the clnt retrieves these
embeddings via PIR and performs the dense retrieval locally.
5
EVALUATION
5.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
We implement our designs PILLAR-Bin and PILLAR-Tree (Section 4) in Go and compare them
against PACMANN (Zhou et al., 2024b), the state-of-the-art PPRAG protocol, which answers each
query through a multi-round private ANN traversal. For all three protocols, we run a hyperparameter
grid search over all parameters (we detail the tunable parameters in Table 1). We plot/detail the
metrics for every configuration of every method over our chosen datasets in Appendix D. Because the
number of configurations is large, this section reports five representative configurations per protocol;
Appendix D repeats each plot with all configurations included.
On Selecting Representative Configurations. We adapt a standard algorithm for determining how
to minimize the metric cost while maximizing the metric benefit over multiple configurations, called
Kneedle Satopaa et al. (2011). We define the benefit of a configuration by the mean of its MRR@10
and Recall@10, each min-max normalized first, which are standard metrics Thakur et al. (2021a)
in determining the quality of documents retrieved. The ideal cost for a PPRAG must consider two
quantities, (i) the number of PIR rounds it needs, and (ii) the total data transferred. We use per-query
WAN latency as a proxy for both: each sequential PIR round adds a full network round trip, and
each byte transferred adds transmission time over the limited bandwidth. Following Kneedle, for
each of the three protocols, we compute and select five configurations from the Pareto frontier: The
lowest-cost configuration (C1), the configuration with the largest normalized benefit relative to its
normalized cost (C2), the configurations with the highest MRR@10 (C3) and highest Recall@10 (C4),
and the highest-cost configuration (C5). Appendix D details the full procedure. For completeness, we
7


0.12
0.18
0.24
0.3
0.36
MRR@10
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Recall@10
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0
Latency (s)
0.54
0.6
0.66
0.72
0.78
Relevancy
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0
Latency (s)
0.8
0.84
0.88
0.92
0.96
Faithfulness
PPRAG Comparison - MS MARCO
PILLAR-Bin (Ours)
PILLAR-Tree (Ours)
PACMANN
Pareto Frontier
(a) PPRAG Comparison - MS MARCO
0.52
0.56
0.6
0.64
0.68
MRR@10
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
Recall@10
0.0 0.3 0.7 1.0 1.4
Latency (s)
0.55
0.6
0.65
0.7
Relevancy
0.0 0.3 0.7 1.0 1.4
Latency (s)
0.6
0.63
0.66
0.69
0.72
Faithfulness
PPRAG Comparison - SciFact
PILLAR-Bin (Ours)
PILLAR-Tree (Ours)
PACMANN
Pareto Frontier
(b) PPRAG Comparison - SciFact
Figure 3: Retrieval quality (MRR@10, Recall@10) and answer quality (Answer Relevancy, Faithful-
ness) (Y-axis, higher is better) against per-query WAN latency (X-axis, lower is better) for the five
selected configurations of each protocol. The black line is the Pareto frontier, which highlights the
best configurations. Configurations not on the Pareto frontier are slightly transparent.
consider other instantiations of the metric cost, such as LAN latency, computation time, and total
data sent, in Appendix D.
Datasets.
We
evaluate
on
the
MS
MARCO
passage
retrieval
benchmark
(Ba-
jaj
et
al.,
2018),
consisting
of
8.8
million
passages
and
6,980
queries,
and
on
SciFact
Wadden
et
al.
(2020),
a
corpus
of
5,183
documents
and
300
queries.
Param.
Meaning
PILLAR-Bin
R
Hash table size
t
# Documents per bin
DBemb
Retrieve embeddings directly
or use two PIR rounds
PILLAR-Tree
r
Branching factor of the tree
|B|
# Documents per leaf block
s
# Documents per sub-block
W
Beam width
PACMANN
p
# Steps in ANN traversal
n
# Neighbors retrieved per step
Table
1:
The
parameter
grid
searched for each protocol. Every
combination was run on both Sci-
Fact and MS MARCO.
These two datasets cover the qualities that matter for a PPRAG
evaluation: MS MARCO is large, so latency, communication,
and memory all matter, and its queries are open-domain, so ex-
act term overlap is a weak measure of similarity, which works
against the lexical scoring components in both PILLAR-Bin
and PILLAR-Tree. SciFact is three orders of magnitude
smaller, so cost differences matter less, but its queries are sci-
entific claims with rare, specific terminology, where lexical
scoring is strongest.
Testbed. Retrieval experiments were run on a Debian 12 con-
tainer with a 64-core, 128-thread AMD EPYC Zen 2 CPU,
but we limit each process to only 15 threads. For end-to-end
answer quality, the documents retrieved by each selected con-
figuration are passed to an LLM, Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct Qwen
et al. (2025). The resulting answers are scored by the RAGAS
framework Es et al. (2025), with Llama-3-70B Grattafiori et al.
(2024) as judge. To simulate WAN latency, we use a round-
trip-time of 50 milliseconds and 400 megabits per second
bandwidth. See further details in I.1
5.2
COMPARISON AGAINST PACMANN AND ABLATION
Metrics. To benchmark our proposed PPRAGs, we use Re-
call@10, which measures whether the correct document ap-
pears among the top 10 retrieved, and MRR@10, which re-
wards placing the correct document near the top. We also use
RAGAS metrics, Faithfulness measures whether the claims in the LLM’s answer are supported by
the retrieved documents, and Answer Relevancy measures whether the LLM actually answered the
question, regardless of the presence of the correct document. We report both groups, because MRR
and Recall alone do not show whether the retrieved context is useful to an LLM5. As all of our
configurations offer a cost-benefit trade-off, we show the Pareto frontier (black line) in Figure 3 for
5The evaluation of PACMANN only considers MRR and Recall, but a RAG pipeline needs to retrieve
documents that generate a well-informed answer, so we report RAGAS metrics alongside MRR and Recall
8


100
1K
10K 100K 1M
Hash Table Size (log)
70
85
100
115
130
Comm (KB)
10
50
200
700 2.5K
Docs per Bin (log)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Quality
PILLAR-Bins Ablation
MS MARCO
SciFact
MRR
Recall
(a) PILLAR-Bin Ablation
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
Tree MS MARCO Configs
0.00
0.35
0.65
0.95
MS MARCO
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
Tree SciFact Configs
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
SciFact
Latency (s)
PILLAR-Tree Latency by Stages
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
(b) PILLAR-Tree Latency by Stages
Figure 4: Left: Two PILLAR-Bin ablation plots, total communication cost per query against the
size of the hash table (log scale), and retrieval quality against documents stored in a bin (log scale).
Right: per-query latency of the five selected PILLAR-Tree configurations (C1-C5) (defined in
Section 5.1 and Table 3 lists their specific parameters) by the 3 stages defined in Section 4.2.
each configuration in our two datasets. If a configuration lies on the Pareto frontier, no configuration
of any protocol achieves better quality (Y-axis) at equal or lower latency (X-axis). Across all of
our experiments (See Figure 3), 93% of the points on the Pareto frontier come from our proposed
PILLAR hybrid architecture and only 7% come from PACMANN.
On the Analysis of The Pareto Frontier. PILLAR-Bin retrieves the top 10 documents in as
little as 0.098 s on MS MARCO and 0.065 s on SciFact. There is no configuration of PACMANN
(on the Pareto frontier) that runs under 0.1 s on either datasets (while PILLAR-Bin has multiple),
the fastest PACMANN configuration takes 0.293 s on MS MARCO and 0.270 s on SciFact, which
is 3× to 4× slower. As for PILLAR-Tree, in terms of speed, PILLAR-Tree rarely reaches
PILLAR-Bin’s latencies, since its traversal needs ⌈logr(|C|/|B|)⌉rounds. In terms of quality,
across all configurations on the Pareto frontier in Figure 3 that run in under 1.0 s, PILLAR-Tree
achieves the highest quality across all metrics and across both datasets. Across all configurations
used to produce Figure 3, 54% of the points are configurations of PILLAR-Tree.
PILLAR-Tree Latency by Stages. Many PILLAR-Tree configurations retrieve documents that
score highly across quality metrics, but, for some of them, the latency is increased. To investigate
this, we show how each of the three stages of PILLAR-Tree affects latency in Figure 4b. On MS
MARCO, Stages 1 and 3 stay roughly constant, which are the traversal and embedding retrieval
stages, respectively. Almost all latency variability comes from Stage 2, the sub-block retrieval stage.
Stage 2 latency drives retrieval quality; the highest-latency configuration (C5) reaches 0.318 MRR
on MS MARCO, while the lowest-latency configuration reaches 0.248, a 28% gain. W determines
how many candidate documents Stage 2 refines, which makes it the first parameter to tune on a new
dataset. On SciFact, the five configurations differ by under 20 ms. This is due to the size of the tree,
which will always be smaller on a small dataset (such as SciFact).
PILLAR-Bin Ablation. We test the two parameters of PILLAR-Bin: the size of the hash table,
and the number of documents stored in a bin. Specifically, we investigate (i) how the size of the hash
table affects the communication cost, as well as (ii) how the number of documents stored in a bin
affects retrieval quality (we provide a more extensive ablation on PILLAR-Bin in Appendix D). The
left plot of Figure 4a fixes the documents per bin at 10 and varies the hash table size (X-axis), showing
that total communication cost per query (Y-axis, Comm KB) increases with the size of the hash table
(as is expected when using PIR). We vary the size of the hash table by 6 orders of magnitude, but
see that the communication cost for the largest hash table is not even 2× the cost of the smallest.
Thus, hash table size has little impact on the total communication cost, allowing flexibility to choose
the hash table size that provides the best retrieval quality (as shown in Appendix D). The right plot
of Figure 4a fixes the hash table sizes at 1 million for MS MARCO and 5 thousand for SciFact and
varies the number of documents stored in a bin (X-axis). We see that MRR@10/Recall@10 (Y-axis,
Quality) for the retrieved documents increases as the number of documents stored in a bin increases.
Scifact sees diminishing returns, after storing 700 documents per bin, there is little more retrieval
quality to gain. MS Marco continues to see benefits from more returned documents, even at the
highest tested values, 1.0K-2.5K documents per bin, MS MARCO still increases.
9


6
CONCLUSION
We presented PILLAR, a pair of PIR-friendly hybrid retrieval protocols (PILLAR-Bin and
PILLAR-Tree) that split retrieval between a cheap lexical score and a semantic re-ranking per-
formed entirely by the client. We evaluate our two protocols using the state-of-the-art, PACMANN.
PILLAR-Bin always has a faster configuration available, answering queries three times faster
than any configuration PACMANN admits, while PILLAR-Tree frequently retrieves better quality
documents than PACMANN at the same speed.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Daniel Blackley and Evgenios M. Kornaropoulos were partially supported by NSF awards #2154732
and #2439951. Truong Son Nguyen and Ni Trieu were partially supported by NSF award #2451972,
ARPA-H award #1AY2AX000167-01, and Amazon Research award.
REFERENCES
Ishtiyaque Ahmad, Laboni Sarker, Divyakant Agrawal, Amr El Abbadi, and Trinabh Gupta. Coeus: A
system for oblivious document ranking and retrieval. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM Symposium
on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP), pages 672–690, 2021.
Anthropic.
Introducing contextual retrieval.
https://www.anthropic.com/news/
contextual-retrieval, 2024. Accessed September 2026.
Martin Aumüller, Erik Bernhardsson, and Alexander John Faithfull. Ann-benchmarks: A bench-
marking tool for approximate nearest neighbor algorithms. CoRR, abs/1807.05614, 2018. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.05614.
Payal Bajaj, Daniel Campos, Nick Craswell, Li Deng, Jianfeng Gao, Xiaodong Liu, Rangan Ma-
jumder, Andrew McNamara, Bhaskar Mitra, Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Alina Stoica,
Saurabh Tiwary, and Tong Wang. Ms marco: A human generated machine reading comprehension
dataset, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09268.
Michael Barbaro and Tom Zeller Jr. A face is exposed for AOL searcher no. 4417749. The
New York Times, 2006. URL https://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytimes.com/
learning/teachers/featured_articles/20060810thursday.html. Accessed
September 2026.
Amos Beimel, Yuval Ishai, and Tal Malkin. Reducing the servers computation in private information
retrieval: Pir with preprocessing. In Mihir Bellare, editor, Advances in Cryptology — CRYPTO
2000, pages 55–73, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2000. Springer Berlin Heidelberg. ISBN 978-3-540-44598-
2.
Alec
Berntson,
Alina
Stoica
Beck,
Amaia
Salvador
Aguilera,
Farzad
Sunavala,
Thibault
Gisselbrecht,
and
Xianshun
Chen.
Raising
the
bar
for
rag
excellence.
Whitepaper,
https://cdn-dynmedia-1.microsoft.com/is/content/
microsoftcorp/microsoft/final/en-us/microsoft-brand/documents/
ai-search-query-engine-performance-whitepaper.pdf. Accessed September
2026.
Roberto Bisiani. Beam search. In Stuart C. Shapiro, editor, Encyclopedia of Artificial Intelligence.
Wiley, 1987.
Andrei Broder, David Carmel, Michael Herscovici, Aya Soffer, and Jason Zien. Efficient query
evaluation using a two-level retrieval process. In CIKM, 2003.
Sebastian Bruch, Siyu Gai, and Amir Ingber. An analysis of fusion functions for hybrid retrieval.
ACM Transactions on Information Systems, 2023.
10


Benny Chor and Niv Gilboa. Computationally private information retrieval (extended abstract).
In Proceedings of the Twenty-Ninth Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC
’97, page 304–313, New York, NY, USA, 1997. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN
0897918886. doi: 10.1145/258533.258609. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/258533.
258609.
Benny Chor, Oded Goldreich, Eyal Kushilevitz, and Madhu Sudan. Private information retrieval. In
FOCS, 1995.
Gordon V. Cormack, Charles L A Clarke, and Stefan Buettcher. Reciprocal rank fusion outperforms
condorcet and individual rank learning methods. In Proceedings of the 32nd International ACM SI-
GIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, SIGIR ’09, page 758–759,
New York, NY, USA, 2009. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781605584836. doi:
10.1145/1571941.1572114. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/1571941.1572114.
Henry Corrigan-Gibbs and Dmitry Kogan.
Private information retrieval with sublinear online
time. In Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2020: 39th Annual International Conference
on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, Zagreb, Croatia, May 10–14,
2020, Proceedings, Part I, page 44–75, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2020. Springer-Verlag. ISBN 978-
3-030-45720-4. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-45721-1_3. URL https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-45721-1_3.
Shuai Ding and Torsten Suel. Faster top-k document retrieval using block-max indexes. In Pro-
ceedings of the 34th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in
Information Retrieval, SIGIR ’11, page 993–1002, New York, NY, USA, 2011. Association
for Computing Machinery.
ISBN 9781450307574.
doi: 10.1145/2009916.2010048.
URL
https://doi.org/10.1145/2009916.2010048.
Elastic. Reciprocal rank fusion. Elasticsearch Reference, https://www.elastic.co/docs/
reference/elasticsearch/rest-apis/reciprocal-rank-fusion.
Accessed
September 2026.
Shahul Es, Jithin James, Luis Espinosa-Anke, and Steven Schockaert. Ragas: Automated evaluation
of retrieval augmented generation, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.15217.
Thibault Formal, Benjamin Piwowarski, and Stéphane Clinchant. SPLADE: sparse lexical and
expansion model for first stage ranking. CoRR, abs/2107.05720, 2021. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2107.05720.
Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei Sun, Qianyu
Guo, Meng Wang, and Haofen Wang. Retrieval-augmented generation for large language models:
A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997, 2023.
Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad
Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Alex Vaughan, Amy Yang, Angela Fan,
Anirudh Goyal, Anthony Hartshorn, Aobo Yang, Archi Mitra, Archie Sravankumar, Artem Korenev,
Arthur Hinsvark, Arun Rao, Aston Zhang, Aurelien Rodriguez, Austen Gregerson, Ava Spataru,
Baptiste Roziere, Bethany Biron, Binh Tang, Bobbie Chern, Charlotte Caucheteux, Chaya Nayak,
Chloe Bi, Chris Marra, Chris McConnell, Christian Keller, Christophe Touret, Chunyang Wu,
Corinne Wong, Cristian Canton Ferrer, Cyrus Nikolaidis, Damien Allonsius, Daniel Song, Danielle
Pintz, Danny Livshits, Danny Wyatt, David Esiobu, Dhruv Choudhary, Dhruv Mahajan, Diego
Garcia-Olano, Diego Perino, Dieuwke Hupkes, Egor Lakomkin, Ehab AlBadawy, Elina Lobanova,
Emily Dinan, Eric Michael Smith, Filip Radenovic, Francisco Guzmán, Frank Zhang, Gabriel
Synnaeve, Gabrielle Lee, Georgia Lewis Anderson, Govind Thattai, Graeme Nail, Gregoire Mialon,
Guan Pang, Guillem Cucurell, Hailey Nguyen, Hannah Korevaar, Hu Xu, Hugo Touvron, Iliyan
Zarov, Imanol Arrieta Ibarra, Isabel Kloumann, Ishan Misra, Ivan Evtimov, Jack Zhang, Jade Copet,
Jaewon Lee, Jan Geffert, Jana Vranes, Jason Park, Jay Mahadeokar, Jeet Shah, Jelmer van der Linde,
Jennifer Billock, Jenny Hong, Jenya Lee, Jeremy Fu, Jianfeng Chi, Jianyu Huang, Jiawen Liu, Jie
Wang, Jiecao Yu, Joanna Bitton, Joe Spisak, Jongsoo Park, Joseph Rocca, Joshua Johnstun, Joshua
Saxe, Junteng Jia, Kalyan Vasuden Alwala, Karthik Prasad, Kartikeya Upasani, Kate Plawiak,
Ke Li, Kenneth Heafield, Kevin Stone, Khalid El-Arini, Krithika Iyer, Kshitiz Malik, Kuenley
Chiu, Kunal Bhalla, Kushal Lakhotia, Lauren Rantala-Yeary, Laurens van der Maaten, Lawrence
11


Chen, Liang Tan, Liz Jenkins, Louis Martin, Lovish Madaan, Lubo Malo, Lukas Blecher, Lukas
Landzaat, Luke de Oliveira, Madeline Muzzi, Mahesh Pasupuleti, Mannat Singh, Manohar Paluri,
Marcin Kardas, Maria Tsimpoukelli, Mathew Oldham, Mathieu Rita, Maya Pavlova, Melanie
Kambadur, Mike Lewis, Min Si, Mitesh Kumar Singh, Mona Hassan, Naman Goyal, Narjes
Torabi, Nikolay Bashlykov, Nikolay Bogoychev, Niladri Chatterji, Ning Zhang, Olivier Duchenne,
Onur Çelebi, Patrick Alrassy, Pengchuan Zhang, Pengwei Li, Petar Vasic, Peter Weng, Prajjwal
Bhargava, Pratik Dubal, Praveen Krishnan, Punit Singh Koura, Puxin Xu, Qing He, Qingxiao Dong,
Ragavan Srinivasan, Raj Ganapathy, Ramon Calderer, Ricardo Silveira Cabral, Robert Stojnic,
Roberta Raileanu, Rohan Maheswari, Rohit Girdhar, Rohit Patel, Romain Sauvestre, Ronnie
Polidoro, Roshan Sumbaly, Ross Taylor, Ruan Silva, Rui Hou, Rui Wang, Saghar Hosseini, Sahana
Chennabasappa, Sanjay Singh, Sean Bell, Seohyun Sonia Kim, Sergey Edunov, Shaoliang Nie,
Sharan Narang, Sharath Raparthy, Sheng Shen, Shengye Wan, Shruti Bhosale, Shun Zhang, Simon
Vandenhende, Soumya Batra, Spencer Whitman, Sten Sootla, Stephane Collot, Suchin Gururangan,
Sydney Borodinsky, Tamar Herman, Tara Fowler, Tarek Sheasha, Thomas Georgiou, Thomas
Scialom, Tobias Speckbacher, Todor Mihaylov, Tong Xiao, Ujjwal Karn, Vedanuj Goswami,
Vibhor Gupta, Vignesh Ramanathan, Viktor Kerkez, Vincent Gonguet, Virginie Do, Vish Vogeti,
Vítor Albiero, Vladan Petrovic, Weiwei Chu, Wenhan Xiong, Wenyin Fu, Whitney Meers, Xavier
Martinet, Xiaodong Wang, Xiaofang Wang, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Xide Xia, Xinfeng Xie, Xuchao
Jia, Xuewei Wang, Yaelle Goldschlag, Yashesh Gaur, Yasmine Babaei, Yi Wen, Yiwen Song,
Yuchen Zhang, Yue Li, Yuning Mao, Zacharie Delpierre Coudert, Zheng Yan, Zhengxing Chen, Zoe
Papakipos, Aaditya Singh, Aayushi Srivastava, Abha Jain, Adam Kelsey, Adam Shajnfeld, Adithya
Gangidi, Adolfo Victoria, Ahuva Goldstand, Ajay Menon, Ajay Sharma, Alex Boesenberg, Alexei
Baevski, Allie Feinstein, Amanda Kallet, Amit Sangani, Amos Teo, Anam Yunus, Andrei Lupu,
Andres Alvarado, Andrew Caples, Andrew Gu, Andrew Ho, Andrew Poulton, Andrew Ryan, Ankit
Ramchandani, Annie Dong, Annie Franco, Anuj Goyal, Aparajita Saraf, Arkabandhu Chowdhury,
Ashley Gabriel, Ashwin Bharambe, Assaf Eisenman, Azadeh Yazdan, Beau James, Ben Maurer,
Benjamin Leonhardi, Bernie Huang, Beth Loyd, Beto De Paola, Bhargavi Paranjape, Bing Liu,
Bo Wu, Boyu Ni, Braden Hancock, Bram Wasti, Brandon Spence, Brani Stojkovic, Brian Gamido,
Britt Montalvo, Carl Parker, Carly Burton, Catalina Mejia, Ce Liu, Changhan Wang, Changkyu
Kim, Chao Zhou, Chester Hu, Ching-Hsiang Chu, Chris Cai, Chris Tindal, Christoph Feichtenhofer,
Cynthia Gao, Damon Civin, Dana Beaty, Daniel Kreymer, Daniel Li, David Adkins, David Xu,
Davide Testuggine, Delia David, Devi Parikh, Diana Liskovich, Didem Foss, Dingkang Wang, Duc
Le, Dustin Holland, Edward Dowling, Eissa Jamil, Elaine Montgomery, Eleonora Presani, Emily
Hahn, Emily Wood, Eric-Tuan Le, Erik Brinkman, Esteban Arcaute, Evan Dunbar, Evan Smothers,
Fei Sun, Felix Kreuk, Feng Tian, Filippos Kokkinos, Firat Ozgenel, Francesco Caggioni, Frank
Kanayet, Frank Seide, Gabriela Medina Florez, Gabriella Schwarz, Gada Badeer, Georgia Swee,
Gil Halpern, Grant Herman, Grigory Sizov, Guangyi, Zhang, Guna Lakshminarayanan, Hakan Inan,
Hamid Shojanazeri, Han Zou, Hannah Wang, Hanwen Zha, Haroun Habeeb, Harrison Rudolph,
Helen Suk, Henry Aspegren, Hunter Goldman, Hongyuan Zhan, Ibrahim Damlaj, Igor Molybog,
Igor Tufanov, Ilias Leontiadis, Irina-Elena Veliche, Itai Gat, Jake Weissman, James Geboski, James
Kohli, Janice Lam, Japhet Asher, Jean-Baptiste Gaya, Jeff Marcus, Jeff Tang, Jennifer Chan, Jenny
Zhen, Jeremy Reizenstein, Jeremy Teboul, Jessica Zhong, Jian Jin, Jingyi Yang, Joe Cummings,
Jon Carvill, Jon Shepard, Jonathan McPhie, Jonathan Torres, Josh Ginsburg, Junjie Wang, Kai
Wu, Kam Hou U, Karan Saxena, Kartikay Khandelwal, Katayoun Zand, Kathy Matosich, Kaushik
Veeraraghavan, Kelly Michelena, Keqian Li, Kiran Jagadeesh, Kun Huang, Kunal Chawla, Kyle
Huang, Lailin Chen, Lakshya Garg, Lavender A, Leandro Silva, Lee Bell, Lei Zhang, Liangpeng
Guo, Licheng Yu, Liron Moshkovich, Luca Wehrstedt, Madian Khabsa, Manav Avalani, Manish
Bhatt, Martynas Mankus, Matan Hasson, Matthew Lennie, Matthias Reso, Maxim Groshev, Maxim
Naumov, Maya Lathi, Meghan Keneally, Miao Liu, Michael L. Seltzer, Michal Valko, Michelle
Restrepo, Mihir Patel, Mik Vyatskov, Mikayel Samvelyan, Mike Clark, Mike Macey, Mike Wang,
Miquel Jubert Hermoso, Mo Metanat, Mohammad Rastegari, Munish Bansal, Nandhini Santhanam,
Natascha Parks, Natasha White, Navyata Bawa, Nayan Singhal, Nick Egebo, Nicolas Usunier,
Nikhil Mehta, Nikolay Pavlovich Laptev, Ning Dong, Norman Cheng, Oleg Chernoguz, Olivia
Hart, Omkar Salpekar, Ozlem Kalinli, Parkin Kent, Parth Parekh, Paul Saab, Pavan Balaji, Pedro
Rittner, Philip Bontrager, Pierre Roux, Piotr Dollar, Polina Zvyagina, Prashant Ratanchandani,
Pritish Yuvraj, Qian Liang, Rachad Alao, Rachel Rodriguez, Rafi Ayub, Raghotham Murthy,
Raghu Nayani, Rahul Mitra, Rangaprabhu Parthasarathy, Raymond Li, Rebekkah Hogan, Robin
Battey, Rocky Wang, Russ Howes, Ruty Rinott, Sachin Mehta, Sachin Siby, Sai Jayesh Bondu,
Samyak Datta, Sara Chugh, Sara Hunt, Sargun Dhillon, Sasha Sidorov, Satadru Pan, Saurabh
12


Mahajan, Saurabh Verma, Seiji Yamamoto, Sharadh Ramaswamy, Shaun Lindsay, Shaun Lindsay,
Sheng Feng, Shenghao Lin, Shengxin Cindy Zha, Shishir Patil, Shiva Shankar, Shuqiang Zhang,
Shuqiang Zhang, Sinong Wang, Sneha Agarwal, Soji Sajuyigbe, Soumith Chintala, Stephanie
Max, Stephen Chen, Steve Kehoe, Steve Satterfield, Sudarshan Govindaprasad, Sumit Gupta,
Summer Deng, Sungmin Cho, Sunny Virk, Suraj Subramanian, Sy Choudhury, Sydney Goldman,
Tal Remez, Tamar Glaser, Tamara Best, Thilo Koehler, Thomas Robinson, Tianhe Li, Tianjun
Zhang, Tim Matthews, Timothy Chou, Tzook Shaked, Varun Vontimitta, Victoria Ajayi, Victoria
Montanez, Vijai Mohan, Vinay Satish Kumar, Vishal Mangla, Vlad Ionescu, Vlad Poenaru,
Vlad Tiberiu Mihailescu, Vladimir Ivanov, Wei Li, Wenchen Wang, Wenwen Jiang, Wes Bouaziz,
Will Constable, Xiaocheng Tang, Xiaojian Wu, Xiaolan Wang, Xilun Wu, Xinbo Gao, Yaniv
Kleinman, Yanjun Chen, Ye Hu, Ye Jia, Ye Qi, Yenda Li, Yilin Zhang, Ying Zhang, Yossi Adi,
Youngjin Nam, Yu, Wang, Yu Zhao, Yuchen Hao, Yundi Qian, Yunlu Li, Yuzi He, Zach Rait,
Zachary DeVito, Zef Rosnbrick, Zhaoduo Wen, Zhenyu Yang, Zhiwei Zhao, and Zhiyu Ma. The
llama 3 herd of models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.21783.
Sariel Har-Peled, Piotr Indyk, and Rajeev Motwani. Approximate nearest neighbor: Towards
removing the curse of dimensionality. Theory of Computing, 8:321–350, 01 1998. doi: 10.4086/
toc.2012.v008a014.
Alexandra Henzinger, Emma Dauterman, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, and Nickolai Zeldovich. Private
web search with tiptoe. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/1438, 2023. URL https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2023/1438.
Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou. Billion-scale similarity search with gpus. In IEEE
Transactions on Big Data, 2019.
Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi
Chen, and Wen-tau Yih. Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question answering. In Bonnie
Webber, Trevor Cohn, Yulan He, and Yang Liu, editors, Proceedings of the 2020 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 6769–6781, Online,
November 2020. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.
550. URL https://aclanthology.org/2020.emnlp-main.550/.
E. Kushilevitz and R. Ostrovsky. Replication is not needed: single database, computationally-private
information retrieval. In Proceedings of the 38th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer
Science, FOCS ’97, page 364, USA, 1997. IEEE Computer Society. ISBN 0818681977.
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal,
Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe
Kiela. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive NLP tasks. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2020.
Xueguang Ma, Kai Sun, Ronak Pradeep, and Jimmy Lin. A replication study of dense passage
retriever. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.05740, 2021.
Yu A Malkov and Dmitry A Yashunin. Efficient and robust approximate nearest neighbor search
using hierarchical navigable small world graphs. IEEE TPAMI, 2018.
Microsoft.
Hybrid search using vectors and full text in Azure AI Search.
https://
learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/hybrid-search-overview. Ac-
cessed September 2026.
Kaisa Miettinen. Nonlinear Multiobjective Optimization, volume 12 of International Series in
Operations Research and Management Science. Springer, 1999. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-5563-6.
Niloofar Mireshghallah, Maria Antoniak, Yash More, Yejin Choi, and Golnoosh Farnadi. Trust no
bot: Discovering personal disclosures in human-LLM conversations in the wild. In Conference on
Language Modeling (COLM), 2024.
Kevin P. Murphy.
Machine learning : a probabilistic perspective.
MIT Press, Cambridge,
Mass. [u.a.], 2013.
ISBN 9780262018029 0262018020.
URL https://www.amazon.
com/Machine-Learning-Probabilistic-Perspective-Computation/dp/
0262018020/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1336857747&sr=8-2.
13


OpenSearch Project.
Hybrid search.
https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/
search-plugins/hybrid-search. Accessed September 2026.
Qwen, :, An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan
Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang, Jianhong Tu, Jianwei Zhang,
Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, Keming Lu, Keqin Bao, Kexin
Yang, Le Yu, Mei Li, Mingfeng Xue, Pei Zhang, Qin Zhu, Rui Men, Runji Lin, Tianhao Li, Tianyi
Tang, Tingyu Xia, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Yang Fan, Yang Su, Yichang Zhang, Yu Wan,
Yuqiong Liu, Zeyu Cui, Zhenru Zhang, and Zihan Qiu. Qwen2.5 technical report, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15115.
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. Sentence-BERT: Sentence embeddings using Siamese BERT-
networks. In Kentaro Inui, Jing Jiang, Vincent Ng, and Xiaojun Wan, editors, Proceedings
of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th
International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 3982–
3992, Hong Kong, China, November 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi:
10.18653/v1/D19-1410. URL https://aclanthology.org/D19-1410/.
Stephen Robertson and Hugo Zaragoza. The probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and beyond.
Foundations and Trends in IR, 2009.
Ville Satopaa, Jeannie Albrecht, David Irwin, and Barath Raghavan. Finding a “kneedle” in a haystack:
Detecting knee points in system behavior. In 2011 31st International Conference on Distributed
Computing Systems Workshops, pages 166–171. IEEE, 2011. doi: 10.1109/ICDCSW.2011.20.
Robin Staab, Mark Vero, Mislav Balunovi´c, and Martin Vechev. Beyond memorization: Violating
privacy via inference with large language models. In International Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR), 2024.
Nandan Thakur, Nils Reimers, Andreas Ruckl’e, Abhishek Srivastava, and Iryna Gurevych.
Beir: A heterogenous benchmark for zero-shot evaluation of information retrieval models.
ArXiv, abs/2104.08663, 2021a. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:
233296016.
Nandan Thakur, Nils Reimers, Andreas Rücklé, Abhishek Srivastava, and Iryna Gurevych. BEIR: A
heterogeneous benchmark for zero-shot evaluation of information retrieval models. In NeurIPS
Datasets and Benchmarks Track, 2021b.
Howard Turtle and James Flood. Query evaluation: Strategies and optimizations. Information
Processing & Management, 31(6):831–850, 1995.
ISSN 0306-4573.
doi: https://doi.org/
10.1016/0306-4573(95)00020-H. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/030645739500020H.
David Wadden, Shanchuan Lin, Kyle Lo, Lucy Lu Wang, Madeleine van Zuylen, Arman Cohan,
and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. Fact or fiction: Verifying scientific claims. In Bonnie Webber, Trevor
Cohn, Yulan He, and Yang Liu, editors, Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 7534–7550, Online, November 2020.
Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.609. URL https:
//aclanthology.org/2020.emnlp-main.609/.
Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binxing Jiao, Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang, Rangan Majumder,
and Furu Wei. Text embeddings by weakly-supervised contrastive pre-training, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.03533.
Wenhui Wang, Furu Wei, Li Dong, Hangbo Bao, Nan Yang, and Ming Zhou. Minilm: Deep
self-attention distillation for task-agnostic compression of pre-trained transformers, 2020. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.10957.
Weaviate.
Hybrid search.
https://docs.weaviate.io/weaviate/concepts/
search/hybrid-search. Accessed September 2026.
Mingxun Zhou, Andrew Park, Wenting Zheng, and Elaine Shi. Piano: Extremely simple, single-server
pir with sublinear server computation. In 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP),
pages 4296–4314, 2024a. doi: 10.1109/SP54263.2024.00055.
14


Mingxun Zhou, Elaine Shi, and Giulia Fanti. Pacmann: Efficient private approximate nearest neighbor
search. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/1600, 2024b. URL https://eprint.iacr.
org/2024/1600.
Jinhao Zhu, Liana Patel, Matei Zaharia, and Raluca Ada Popa. Compass: Encrypted semantic search
with high accuracy. In 19th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(OSDI), pages 915–938, 2025.
APPENDIX
A
AI USE STATEMENT
In this work, we used generative AI tools to assist in implementing methods, namely writing code for
our protocols and result plots. We have not used generative AI tools to generate synthetic datasets,
develop theoretical models or conceptual frameworks, formulate mathematical claims, provide
critical ingredients for proving mathematical claims, assist in the writing of proofs, propose or refine
hypotheses, design or provide feedback on research methodology or experiments, clean or reformat
datasets, or interpret results, and assistance with translation and qualitative or thematic data analysis
are not applicable to this work. Additionally, we used generative AI tools to draft parts of the paper
(initial text, section structure and titles, and LATEX layout), to edit the paper for grammar, spelling, and
readability, and to identify and summarize relevant literature. We have reviewed all AI-assisted work.
All AI-generated code was reviewed, re-written, tested, and validated for correctness by the authors.
AI-drafted text served only as a starting point and was revised by the authors, and all technical content,
claims, and proofs are the authors’ own. Literature identified or summarized with AI assistance was
checked against the original sources, and all citations were verified manually. We take responsibility
for the final content of this work, including text, claims or artifacts produced with the aid of generative
AI.
B
REPRODUCIBILITY
We provide an extensive Appendix that details the step-by-step operation of PILLAR-Tree
and PILLAR-Bin (Appendix E) and we also detail all the different parameters tested for all
three protocols (Appendix D and Table 1). All code for PILLAR-Bin is available at https:
//github.com/dkblackley/bins-go and PILLAR-Tree at https://github.com/
sonnguyenasu/bm25-tree.
C
NOTATION
In the paper we use different hyper-parameters and variables for our protocols. We detailed the
parameters notations and their corresponding definition in Table 2.
D
ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENT RESULTS
In this section we present additional result of all configurations that we use some of them in the main
paper.
D.1
HYPERPARAMETER TUNING ON PILLAR-TR E E CONFIGURATIONS
We perform a grid search on PILLAR-Tree hyperparameters and evaluate recall, MRR@10, and
estimated number of PIR calls needed. From the evaluation results, we select one representative
operating points from the Pareto frontier shown in Figure 5 using a defined process detailed later,
together with the four configurations attaining the lowest PIR call, the highest PIR calls, the highest
MRR@10 and highest Recall@10. We then run a full evaluation on these 5 configurations: we (1)
evaluate the MRR@10 and Recall@10 of the configurations on a test set of 1, 500 queries from
MSMARCO train set for MSMARCO, and a test set of 75 queries from Scifact train set for Scifact– to
15


Parameter
Definition
C
The corpus
V
Set of all unique terms in C
d
Embedding vector dimension
D
Documents in C
eD
Embedding vector of document D
Q
Client query
eQ
Embedding vector of client query
k
Number of relevant document retrieved
id(·)
Function to represent the index of a document/ document block
t
Number of documents returned per query term
R
Number of rows used in PILLAR-Bin
H
The public hash function used in PILLAR-Bin
B
Block Size
B
Block of B documents in the corpus
σw(B)
Largest score between term w and any document in B
r
Branching factor of the tree used in PILLAR-Tree
H
Tree height
W
Beam width used in PILLAR-Tree’s beam search
s
Sub-block size
q⋆
Fixed query size, attained by pad/truncate the client query
ks
Number of sub-block with document embeddings being retrieved
Table 2: Definition of variables used in the paper
make sure tuning set and test set are different – (2) execute each configuration under PIR to benchmark
runtime and (3) use RAGAS to evaluate downstream generation quality. For MSMarco, the search is
performed over B ∈{16, 32, 64}, r ∈{8, 32, 128}, q⋆∈{2, 4, 6, 8}, W ∈{50, 100, 200, 400}, s ∈
{4, 8, 16}. For Scifact, the search is performed over B ∈{8, 16, 32, 64}, r ∈{4, 8, 32, 128}, q⋆∈
{4, 8, 12, 16}, W ∈{5, 10, 20, 40, 80}, s ∈{2, 4, 8}. The set of 5 candidate configurations along
with their corresponding MRR are shown in Table 3.
D.1.1
REPRESENTATIVE CONFIGURATIONS SELECTION.
As discussed earlier, we use Pareto frontier to choose a representative configuration along with two
configurations represent the best recall@10 and best MRR@10. Here we show how we choose the
five configurations.
Pareto Frontier
Let Θ denote the evaluated hyperparameter configurations. Following the standard
definition of Pareto optimality Miettinen (1999), a configuration θ′ dominates θ, denoted θ′ ≻θ, if
MRR(θ′) ≥MRR(θ),
Recall(θ′) ≥Recall(θ),
PIRCall(θ′) ≤PIRCall(θ),
with at least one strict inequality. The Pareto frontier is the set of configurations where improving
one metric worsen at least another:
P = {θ ∈Θ : ∄θ′ ∈Θ such that θ′ ≻θ} .
Effectiveness Score.
To visualize the effectiveness-cost trade-off, we min-max normalize each
retrieval metric:
]
MRR(θ) = MRR(θ) −MRRmin
MRRmax −MRRmin
,
^
Recall(θ) = Recall(θ) −Recallmin
Recallmax −Recallmin
.
We define the aggregate effectiveness score as
E(θ) =
]
MRR(θ) + ^
Recall(θ)
2
.
16


Dataset
Config B
r q⋆
W
s
ks
Tuning
Test
PIR calls
/ query
MRR@10 Recall@10 MRR@10 Recall@10
MS MARCO
C1
64 128
2
50 16
32
0.1833
0.3055
0.1962
0.3426
472
C2
64 128
4
50 16
64
0.2833
0.4880
0.3190
0.5751
944
C3
16 128
8 400
8 256
0.3218
0.5639
0.3551
0.6573
13616
C4
64 128
8 400
4 256
0.3211
0.5649
0.3549
0.6631
13216
C5
16
8
8 400 16 256
0.3213
0.5625
0.3556
0.6580
28352
SciFact
C1
64 128
4
5
8
5
0.5303
0.5909
0.5852
0.6333
53
C2
16 128 12
10
4
10
0.6623
0.8008
0.6192
0.7600
346
C3
16 128 16
20
4
10
0.6697
0.8043
0.6350
0.7867
778
C4
32 128 12
80
2
40
0.6606
0.8428
0.6225
0.8000
2032
C5
8
4 16
80
4
80
0.6518
0.8267
0.6249
0.8067
6992
Table 3: Dense-only configurations selected from the plaintext parameter search. C1 has the lowest
padded PIR cost, C2 is the effectiveness–cost knee, C3 has the highest tuning MRR@10, C4 has
the highest tuning Recall@10, and C5 has the highest padded PIR cost. Tuning results use 6,980
MS MARCO queries and 300 SciFact queries; test results use 1,500 MS MARCO queries and 75
held-out SciFact queries. Bold metric values are column maxima within each dataset, while bold PIR
costs are column minima. PIR-query counts assume constant-work padding and include two Cuckoo
calls for every Stage 1 and Stage 2 lookup and one query for each retrieved embedding row. They
count primitive PIR queries rather than network round trips after batching.
The effectiveness-cost envelope PE is the set when maximizing E and minimizing PIRCall:
PE =
n
θ ∈Θ : ∄θ′ ∈Θ such that E(θ′) ≥E(θ) ∧PIRCall(θ′) ≤PIRCall(θ),
with at least one strict inequality
o
.
Following the normalized difference construction of Kneedle Satopaa et al. (2011), we define
x(θ) = log PIRCall(θ) −log PIRCallmin
log PIRCallmax −log PIRCallmin
,
y(θ) = E(θ) −Emin
Emax −Emin
.
The knee point, which represents the point on the envelope which witness the strongest gain in
effectiveness with respect to its PIR cost, is defined as θknee = arg maxθ∈PE (y(θ) −x(θ)) .
We then chooses the points C1, C2, C3, C4, C5 as:
• C1: Point C1 with lowest number of PIR calls
• C2: Point C2 is the knee point θknee
• C3: Point C3 with highest MRR@10 on tune set
• C4: Point C4 with highest Recall@10 on tune set
• C5: Point C5 with highest number of PIR calls
PACMANN and PILLAR-Bin follow a similar protocol to PILLAR-Tree, but instead they directly
use the recorded WAN time as the cost. We detail PACMANN’s best configs in Table 5 and
PILLAR-Bin’s best in Table 4.
D.2
EXTENSIVE COMPARISONS
In this section, we plot every different configuration we ran across PACMANN, PILLAR-Bin and
PILLAR-Tree. We use the same Pareot frontiers as were in Section 5. We have over 2,000 total
configurations, which is why we limited our comparison previously. To keep each plot legible, we
only show the entire Pareto frontier and circled points on the frontier with a black outline. To get
Faithfulness and Answer Relevancy for every single different configuration using the GPUs available
to us would’ve taken a substantial amount of time, as a result, we decided to include more total
configurations but with more basic metrics. Every plot here only uses MRR and Recall
17


103
104
0
0.5
1
C1
C2 (knee)
C3 C4 C5
PIR calls / query
Effectiveness E
MS MARCO
102
103
0
0.5
1
C1
C2 (knee)
C3
C4
C5
PIR calls / query
SciFact
Frontier envelope
Selected C1–C5
Computed knee (C2)
Figure 5: Effectiveness-PIR-cost trade-off over the complete plaintext grid. Blue marks are all tested
configurations and circles are configurations nondominated in MRR@10, Recall@10, and padded
PIR calls. The solid curve is the upper envelope PE, C1,C2,C3,C4,C5 are chosen configurations.
Dataset
Config
bs
dpb MRR@10 Recall@10 WAN time
/ query (s)
MS MARCO
C1
106
250
0.145
0.2337
0.098
C2
106 1500
0.2067
0.3474
0.334
C3
106 2000
0.2160
0.3635
0.429
C4
106 2500
0.2219
0.3739
0.523
C5
106 1000
0.1925
0.3192
0.239
SciFact
C1
106
50
0.5607
0.6781
0.065
C2
106
250
0.5905
0.7287
0.124
C3
100 1500
0.6245
0.8042
0.294
C4
100 2500
0.6346
0.8292
1.187
C5
100 2500
0.6346
0.8292
0.456
Table 4: Bins configurations selected from the plaintext parameter search.
On the Time Costs. Figure 6 reports quality against per-query WAN latency, LAN latency, and
computation time. If we fix the budget at the x-axis limits (1 s WAN, 320 ms LAN, and 900 ms
computation on MS MARCO; 250 ms, 35 ms, and 25 ms on SciFact), PILLAR-Tree achieves the
highest MRR@10 and Recall@10 in every panel. PILLAR-Bin occupies the low-latency end of
every frontier. On SciFact, PILLAR-Bin already exceeds 0.5 MRR@10 within 83 ms of WAN
latency and accounts for 50.0% of all frontier points. PACMANN has no configuration on the
Pareto frontier in eight of the twelve panels, so it is never the Pareto-optimal choice. These eight
panels are MRR@10 under WAN latency and both metrics under computation on MS MARCO,
and every panel on SciFact except Recall@10 under computation. In the remaining four panels,
PACMANN contributes at most 5 points. Across all 377 frontier points, 97.1% are configurations of
PILLAR-Bin or PILLAR-Tree.
On the Preprocessing, Communication, and Storage Costs. Figure 7 reports quality against PIR
preprocessing time, data sent, and client storage. All costs are per query except PIR preprocessing
and client storage, which are for the entire end-to-end run. Preprocessing. PACMANN has no
configuration on the Pareto frontier on MS MARCO or for MRR@10 on SciFact. This is because
its additional rounds of PIR queries require correspondingly more PIR preprocessing. At the x-
axis limits (50 min on MS MARCO, 20 s on SciFact), PILLAR-Tree achieves the highest quality
on both metrics. Data sent. At the x-axis limits (34 MB on MS MARCO, 1.5 MB on SciFact),
PILLAR-Tree again achieves the highest quality. PACMANN occupies the middle of the frontier
on MS MARCO (51.9% of points for MRR@10, 51.7% for Recall@10) but only 11.8% and 39.1% on
SciFact. Even though PACMANN may often be the choice for a low amount of total communication,
18


Dataset
Config bs dpb MRR@10 Recall@10 WAN time
/ query (s)
MS MARCO
C1
5
48
0.1892
0.3306
0.293
C2
15
40
0.2802
0.4955
0.853
C3
20
48
0.2990
0.5275
1.157
C4
30
48
0.3073
0.5422
1.727
C5
25
48
0.3057
0.5397
1.442
SciFact
C1
5
40
0.6304
0.8104
0.270
C2
5
48
0.6345
0.8154
0.275
C3
10
40
0.6432
0.8287
0.537
C4
15
32
0.6432
0.8321
0.791
C5
10
32
0.6350
0.8187
0.527
Table 5: PACMANN configurations selected from the plaintext parameter search.
0
330ms 670ms
1s
Latency
0
0.12
0.23
0.35
MRR@10
0
110ms 210ms 320ms
LAN Latency
0
0.12
0.23
0.35
0
300ms 600ms 900ms
Computation
0
0.12
0.23
0.35
0
330ms 670ms
1s
Latency
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Recall@10
0
110ms 210ms 320ms
LAN Latency
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0
300ms 600ms 900ms
Computation
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
MS MARCO PPRAG Full Comparison
PACMANN
Pareto Frontier
PILLAR-Bin (Ours)
PILLAR-Tree (Ours)
(a) MS MARCO
0
83ms 170ms 250ms
Latency
0
0.24
0.48
0.72
MRR@10
0
12ms 23ms 35ms
LAN Latency
0
0.24
0.48
0.72
0
8.3ms 17ms 25ms
Computation
0
0.24
0.48
0.72
0
83ms 170ms 250ms
Latency
0
0.3
0.6
0.9
Recall@10
0
12ms 23ms 35ms
LAN Latency
0
0.3
0.6
0.9
0
8.3ms 17ms 25ms
Computation
0
0.3
0.6
0.9
SciFact PPRAG Full Comparison
PACMANN
Pareto Frontier
PILLAR-Bin (Ours)
PILLAR-Tree (Ours)
(b) SciFact
Figure 6: MRR@10 and Recall@10 against per-query WAN latency, LAN latency, and computation
time. Highlighted points lie on the global Pareto frontier across all three methods.
as we have shown previously, the many rounds practically drag down WAN and LAN latency. Client
storage. PACMANN’s many rounds of interaction let it keep the client-side cost low, and it reaches
near-maximal quality with under 2.1 GB on MS MARCO and under 45 MB on SciFact, whereas
PILLAR-Tree’s highest-quality configurations require over 4.2 GB and 90 MB, respectively. The
cost of these rounds is paid in latency, as shown in Figure 6. Despite this, PACMANN does
not hold a majority of the frontier, it only has 35.3% and 33.3% of the points on MS MARCO
(tied with PILLAR-Tree), and 45.5% and 50.0% on SciFact. PILLAR-Tree still achieves the
highest quality at the x-axis limits (6.3 GB and 140 MB). Moreover, on MS MARCO nearly every
configuration that is viable of every method requires client storage on the order of gigabytes, so
PACMANN’s advantage does not change the scale of the client’s cost. Across all 262 frontier points
in Figure 7, 75.6% are configurations of PILLAR-Bin or PILLAR-Tree, with PILLAR-Tree
the largest share on both datasets (48.0% and 41.6%).
D.3
FURTHER PILLAR-BIN ABLATION PLOTS
We extend the PILLAR-Bin ablation of Section 5 with system costs, client storage and preprocessing
time. As in the main text, when varying the hash table size we fix the number of documents per bin
at 10, and when varying the number of documents per bin we fix the hash table size at 1M for MS
MARCO and 5K for SciFact. WAN latency, LAN latency, compute (total running time) and data sent
(upload and download) are per query. Client storage and PIR preprocessing total costs over the entire
run.
WAN, LAN and total compute. Figure 8 (left) shows that WAN latency, LAN latency and compute
are either not affected by the hash table size increases or show no consistent trend. Only data sent
increases, the same trade-off we discussed in Section 5 Figure 8 (right) shows that all four costs
increase with the number of documents per bin. For SciFact, the increase is small up to 250 documents
per bin and steep between 250 and 500.
19


0
17m
33m
50m
Preprocessing
0
0.12
0.23
0.35
MRR@10
0
11MB 23MB 34MB
Data Sent
0
0.12
0.23
0.35
0
2.1GB 4.2GB 6.3GB
Client Storage
0
0.12
0.23
0.35
0
17m
33m
50m
Preprocessing
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Recall@10
0
11MB 23MB 34MB
Data Sent
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0
2.1GB 4.2GB 6.3GB
Client Storage
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
MS MARCO PPRAG Full Comparison
PACMANN
Pareto Frontier
PILLAR-Bin (Ours)
PILLAR-Tree (Ours)
(a) MS MARCO
0
6.7s
13s
20s
Preprocessing
0
0.24
0.48
0.72
MRR@10
0
500KB1000KB1.5MB
Data Sent
0
0.24
0.48
0.72
0
45MB 90MB140MB
Client Storage
0
0.24
0.48
0.72
0
6.7s
13s
20s
Preprocessing
0
0.3
0.6
0.9
Recall@10
0
500KB1000KB1.5MB
Data Sent
0
0.3
0.6
0.9
0
45MB 90MB140MB
Client Storage
0
0.3
0.6
0.9
SciFact PPRAG Full Comparison
PACMANN
Pareto Frontier
PILLAR-Bin (Ours)
PILLAR-Tree (Ours)
(b) SciFact
Figure 7: MRR@10 and Recall@10 against one-time PIR preprocessing time, per-query data sent,
and one-time client storage. Highlighted points lie on the global Pareto frontier across all three
methods.
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
0
130ms
270ms
400ms
WAN
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
0
13ms
27ms
40ms
LAN
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
0
2.7ms
5.3ms
8ms
Compute
100
1K
10K
100K
1M
70KB
90KB
110KB
130KB
Data Sent
Hash Table Size (log)
Time/Data by Hash Table Size
MS MARCO
SciFact
0
250
500
0
420ms
830ms
1.2s
WAN
0
250
500
0
92ms
180ms
280ms
LAN
0
250
500
0
42ms
83ms
120ms
Compute
0
250
500
0
8.1MB
16MB
24MB
Data Sent
Docs per Bin
Time/Data by Docs per Bin
MS MARCO
SciFact
Figure 8: PILLAR-Bin per-query cost. Left: varying the hash table size. Right: varying the number
of documents per bin.
0
250
500
0
400ms
800ms
1.2s
WAN
0
250
500
0
80ms
160ms
240ms
LAN
0
250
500
0
40ms
80ms
120ms
Compute
0
250
500
0
7.8MB
16MB
23MB
Data Sent
Docs per Bin
Embedding DB Ablation
MS MARCO
SciFact
Single DB
Separate Embedding DB
Figure 11: PILLAR-Bin per-query cost when
embeddings are stored in the bins (Single DB) or
in a separate database (Separate Embedding DB),
varying the number of documents per bin.
Storage costs and PIR preprocessing. Figure 9
reports client storage in the worst case, where ev-
ery hint is completely full. In practice, client stor-
age is dependent on how many bins are full and
ranges from 30-50% better. For MS MARCO,
client storage is approximately 1GB and does
not change with the hash table size. As we saw
in the ablation comparing against PACMANN,
PILLAR-Bin that take up a large client hint
tend to not perform well regardless. For SciFact,
client storage increases from 11MB at a hash ta-
ble size of 100 to 30MB at 1M, with most of
the increase above 10K. Unlike the hash table
size, the number of documents per bin has a large
effect on client storage, which increases for Sci-
Fact and for MS MARCO.Figure 10 (top) shows
that, surprisingly, PIR preprocessing time does
not depend on the hash table size. In our imple-
mentation, we made heavy use of multithreading
to perform pre-processing, so it is likely that the
bottleneck was thrashing related, as a large hash
table size (should) imply more entries to retrieve
PIR hints from. Preprocessing time increases with the number of documents per bin, from 0.6 minutes
at 10 to 4.9 minutes at 500 for MS MARCO, and from a few seconds at up to 100 to 1.7 minutes at
500 for SciFact. This implies that the most important factor is not actually the size of the bin, but
20


100
2.2K
46K
1M
0
1.5GB
3GB
4.4GB
Client
MS MARCO
100
2.2K
46K
1M
0
17MB
33MB
50MB
SciFact
Hash Table Size (log)
Storage by Hash Table Size
0
170
330
500
0
2.3GB
4.6GB
6.9GB
Client
MS MARCO
0
170
330
500
0
40MB
80MB
120MB
SciFact
Docs per Bin
Storage by Docs per Bin
Figure 9: PILLAR-Bin worst-case client storage. Left: varying the hash table size. Right: varying
the number of documents per bin.
100
2.2K
46K
1M
0
0.025
0.05
0.075
Quality
MS MARCO
100
2.2K
46K
1M
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
SciFact
Hash Table Size (log)
Preproc/Quality by Hash Table Size
MRR
Recall
0
170
330
500
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
Quality
MS MARCO
0
170
330
500
0.25
0.43
0.62
0.8
SciFact
Docs per Bin
Preproc/Quality by Docs per Bin
MRR
Recall
Figure 10: PILLAR-Bin PIR preprocessing time (top) and retrieval quality (bottom). Left: varying
the hash table size. Right: varying the number of documents per bin.
instead the size of the entry. Figure 10 (bottom left) shows that retrieval quality increases with the
hash table size. For MS MARCO, MRR@10 and Recall@10 remain below 0.01 up to 100K and
reach 0.042 and 0.054 at 1M, still increasing at the largest tested size. For SciFact, MRR@10 and
Recall@10 increase up to 50K, reaching 0.45 and 0.53, and see no notable benefit.
1 or 2-round PIR PILLAR-Bin can store the document embeddings directly in the bins and
return them with a single PIR query (Single DB), or store document IDs in the bins and retrieve the
corresponding embeddings from a separate database with a second PIR query (Separate Embedding
DB). Figure 11 shows that Single DB has lower or comparable WAN latency, LAN latency, compute
and data sent at every tested number of documents per bin, and that the gap grows with the number
of documents per bin. The difference is largest for SciFact: at 500 documents per bin, Single DB
reduces WAN latency from 1.2s to 240ms, LAN latency from 235ms to 77ms, compute from 110ms
to 7ms, and data sent from 19MB to 7.8MB. Single DB is usually cheaper because it removes the
second round of PIR, the most expensive component of the protocol. Future protocols should always
aim to minimize PIR rounds.
E
PROTOCOL DETAILS
This section gives the detailed protocol figures for PILLAR-Bin and PILLAR-Tree, together
with some implementation details that Section 4 suppresses for clarity. The first concerns what
a RAG pipeline actually returns. A RAG pipeline consumes document text, whereas the dense
stage of PILLAR-Bin outputs embeddings, and an embedding does identify the document it came
from. PACMANN and PILLAR-Tree are unaffected, since both retrieve document indices in their
traversals, but PILLAR-Bin does not. Each entry of the database held by srv in the PILLAR-Bin
protocol stores an index alongside the embedding, using an extra 32 bits per row, and the protocol
outputs indices that clnt uses in the final PIR round of protocol 15. Figure 12 gives the construction
in full.
There is another concern regarding storage used by the client. As described in Section 4, the database
in PILLAR-Bin doesn’t store one document per row, like PACMANN or PILLAR-Tree, but
instead t document embeddings per row. Under a PIR scheme with preprocessing, clnt retains a
collection of entries in the database, that scale sub-linearly with the database size, so this falls on
client storage rather than on the server alone (see Appendix D.1). We therefore provide a second
variant that splits retrieval into two rounds, the first recovers identifiers from a database of 32-bit
21


sized rows, and the second recovers the corresponding embeddings from a database holding each
document embedding once. Figure 13 gives this variant, which trades one additional round for a
client state independent of R and t.
Figure 14 presents the formal construction of PILLAR-Tree protocol. Finally, Figure 15 shows
the whole PPRAG pipeline using the PILLAR-Bin/PILLAR-Tree constructions.
Protocol 1.a: PILLAR-Bin (single-round variant)
Participants. Server srv and client clnt.
Public parameters. Corpus C = {D1, . . . , DN}; analyzer Analyze; embedding function Emb
of dimension d; BM25 parameters (k1, b); row count R; row depth t; hash function H : V →
{0, . . . , R −1}; batch bound β; output size k; reserved dummy index ⊥.
Client input. Query Q with Analyze(Q) = (w1, . . . , w|Q|).
Preprocessing (server srv).
1. srv initialize empty database DB of R rows.
2. For each w ∈V, srv scores every D ∈C containing w under BM25 with w as a single-
term query, and sets Lw to the t highest-scoring documents in descending order, padded
with ⟨⊥, 0⟩if fewer than t documents contain w. Write Lw[j] for its jth document.
3. srv groups terms by row: w belongs to row z = H(w). Write Wz = {w ∈V :
H(w) = z} and let mz = |Wz| be the number of terms that collide in row z, and fix
an arbitrary order w(1), . . . , w(mz) on them, so that Cz = {Lw(1), . . . , Lw(mz)} are the
ordered lists competing for row z.
4. srv fills row z by interleaving the lists of Cz round-robin, one rank at a time: the jth
document of the ith list goes to position (j−1)mz +i: DB[z][(j−1)mz +i] ←Lw(i)[j].
The row therefore holds the best document of every colliding term, then the second-best
of every term, and so on.
5. srv discards duplicates, which arise when a document appears in two colliding lists,
and then truncates each row to its first t documents. A row with mz = 0 is left empty.
6. srv then replaces all document text with embeddings and an index: For every row
index 0 < z ≤R and offset 0 < x ≤t, srv retrieves D = DB[z][x], computes
eD = Emb(D) and sets DB[z][x] = ⟨id(D), eD⟩.
7. srv runs the PIR preprocessing phase over DBEmb with clnt, who stores the resulting
private state.
Retrieval.
1. clnt computes Analyze(Q) and the row indices ri ←H(wi) for i ≤|Q|, removing
repeated indices.
2. clnt fixes the batch to exactly β indices and if |Q| > β it retains the first β or if
|Q| < β they pad with random indices from {0, . . . , R −1}.
3. clnt sends a single batched PIR query for these β indices and recovers the correspond-
ing β rows of DB from srv’s response and its private state.
4. clnt locally discards entries with index ⊥and duplicate indices, forming a candidate
pool Dcand of at most βt embeddings.
5. clnt computes eQ = Emb(Q) locally and ranks Dcand by cos(eQ, eD).
6. clnt outputs the k document indices of highest similarity to the query.
Figure 12: Formal specification of PILLAR-Bin (single-round variant). srv observes exactly β
batched PIR queries, and holds a database DB of R rows. Each row is an ordered list of t entries and
an entry is a pair ⟨id(D), Emb(D)⟩of a 32-bit index and a d-dimensional vector.
22


Protocol 1.b: PILLAR-Bin (two-round variant)
Participants. Server srv and client clnt.
Public parameters. Identical to Protocol 1.a, with a second batch bound β′.
Client input. Query Q with Analyze(Q) = (w1, . . . , w|Q|).
Preprocessing (server srv).
1. srv builds DB exactly as in Protocol 1.a preprocessing, steps 1–4.
2. srv replaces all document text with a unique index only. For every row index 0 < z ≤
R and offset 0 < x ≤t, srv retrieves D = DB[z][x] and sets DB[z][x] = id(D), the
index alone.
3. For each Dj ∈C, srv initializes a database DBEmb by writing eD = Emb(Dj) to row
j of DBEmb.
4. srv runs the PIR preprocessing phase over DB and over DBEmb with clnt, who stores
the resulting private states.
Retrieval.
1. clnt computes retrieval steps 1–2 of Protocol 1.a exactly.
2. clnt sends one batched PIR query to DB, and recovers β rows of indices.
3. clnt locally discards ⊥and duplicate indices, obtaining a set I of, at most, β ·t distinct
indices.
4. clnt fixes I to exactly β′ indices: if |I| > β′ it retains the first β′ indices, if |I| < β′
it appends indices drawn randomly from {1, . . . , R}.
5. clnt sends a single batched PIR query using these β′ indices to DBEmb and recovers
the corresponding embeddings.
6. clnt computes eQ = Emb(Q) locally and ranks the documents of I by cos(eQ, eD),
ignoring the embeddings returned for padding indices.
7. clnt outputs the k document indices of highest similarity to the query.
Figure 13: Formal specification of PILLAR-Bin (two-round variant). The srv stores two databases,
one database DB of R rows of t indices each, and a database DBEmb of N rows, row j holding
the single embedding Emb(Dj). The primary difference is that the server only has to hold one
embedding per entry, instead of t embeddings per entry.
F
COMPLEXITY ANALYSIS
F.1
NOTATION
We denote the cost of a batch PIR call on ψ rows over a database of R rows, each row consist of C
fields as PIRCost(ψ, R, C). For Batch PianoPIR implementation from PACMANN Zhou et al.
(2024b), the cost is eO(C√Rψ)
F.2
PILLAR-BIN COMPLEXITY
Round complexity.
There are two variants of PILLAR-Bin. For the first variant in Figure 13, the
client runs two rounds of communication: The first round to retrieve |Q| rows from the database, the
second round to retrieve the document embedding corresponding to the document indices retrieved
in the first round. For the second variant in Figure 12, clnt run a single round and retrieve the
embeddings directly from srv and rank those |Q| × t retrieved embeddings locally.
PIR cost.
The number of rows being fetched are β for the first round over a total of R rows, where
each row has an average of O(|V|t/R) document IDs, and O(β′ × t) rows for the second round over
23


Protocol 1: BM25-Tree — Privacy-Preserving Lexical Pruning with Dense Ranking
Participants. Server srv and client clnt
Public Parameters. Corpus C of N documents:C = {D1, . . . , DN}; V be set of all unique terms within
all the documents in C; leaf block size B, sub-block size s, tree branching factor r, beam width W, T be
set of all tree nodes, Tℓbe set of tree nodes on level ℓ, stage 2 number of retrieved sub-block ks, maximum
unique query terms q⋆, m public hash functions h1, . . . hm : V × T →{0, 1}⋆; Cuckoo Hash table load
factor α ; target result size k;
Client Input. Query Q = {w1, . . . , wq⋆}.
Server state (initialized).
1. Let H = 1+⌈logr(N/B)⌉be height of r-ary tree. For each level ℓ∈[H], srv computes Nℓthe
number of pairs (w, B) ∈V × Tℓsuch that σw(B)̸ = 0. srv then initializes a database DBtree,ℓ
of ⌈Nℓ/α⌉rows for each ℓ∈[H].
2. srv initialize an empty database DBvector of ⌈N/s⌉rows.
Preprocessing (server srv)
1. For each node Bi,ℓin level ℓfor 1 ≤ℓ≤H −1
(a) srv computes σw(Bi,ℓ+1,j) for child node Bi,ℓ+1,j of Bi,ℓ(j ∈[r]) and all words w that
appears in documents in Bi,ℓ.
(b) For each word w ∈Bi,ℓ, the tuple (w, id(Bi,ℓ), σw(Bi,ℓ+1,1), . . . , σw(Bi,ℓ+1,r)) of r + 2
fields are added to the database DBtree,ℓusing Cuckoo Hash rule on input (w, id(Bi,H))
over m hash functions h1, . . . , hm.
2. For each leaf block B, srv computes the score of their sub-blocks SB1, . . . , SB⌈B/s⌉
of
size
s
with
respect
to
each
word
w
appearing
in
the
block,
store
(w, id(B), σw(SB1), . . . , σw(SB⌈B/s⌉)) to DBtree,H using Cuckoo Hash on input (w, id(B))
and m hash functions h1, . . . , hm.
3. For each sub-block SB at position p = id(SB), store at row p of DBvector the tuple
(eD1, . . . , eDs) the embedding vectors of s documents D1, . . . , Ds within SB.
Figure 14: The BM25-Tree protocol for privacy-preserving lexical pruning with dense re-ranking
(Part I: setup and preprocessing).
a database of N rows, each with d fields. Thus, the total cost of the PILLAR-Bin (2-round) is:
PIRCost(β, R, |V|t/R) + PIRCost(tβ′, N, d) .
For the PILLAR-Bin (1-round), the complexity is simply β queries over a database of R rows, each
with t document embeddings, resulting in total PIR cost of PIRCost(β, R, td)
Local computation.
The client locally computes cosine distance between the query embedding
and all retrieved document embeddings, incurring O(|Q|td) computation complexity at client.
F.3
PILLAR-TREE COMPLEXITY
Round Complexity.
The client runs a total of H + 1 rounds: First H −1 rounds to perform
interactive tree traversal, 1 round for sub-block retrieval, and 1 round for embedding retrieval.
PIR cost.
(1) For tree traversal, the number of rows being fetched on level ℓis mWq⋆
over a database of ⌈Nℓ/α⌉rows, each row consist of r + 2 fields, resulting a cost of
PIRCost(mWq⋆, ⌈Nℓ/α⌉, r+2). (2) For sub-block retrieval, the client fetches mWq⋆over a vector
of ⌈NH/α⌉rows each with ⌈B/s⌉+2 fields, resulting in a PIRCost(mWq⋆, ⌈NH/α⌉, ⌈B/s⌉+2).
(3) For embedding retrieval, the client fetches ks rows over DBvector of ⌈N/s⌉rows, each row has
sd fields, resulting PIRCost(ks, ⌈N/s⌉, sd) cost.
24


Protocol 1: BM25-Tree (continued)
Stage 1: Tree Traversal
1. clnt initializes F0 = {B1,0}, where B1,0 is the root node of the tree.
2. For each level ℓ= 0, . . . , H −1 do
(a) Let Fℓ= {B⋆
1,ℓ, . . . , B⋆
|Fℓ|,ℓ} be the set of candidate nodes at level ℓ. For each w ∈Q,
clnt sends PIR to srv, retrieving rows
 ha
 w, id(B⋆
i,ℓ)

a∈[m]
i∈[|Fℓ|]
from DBtree,ℓ, for a
total of m × |Fℓ| rows.
(b) For each i ∈[|Fℓ|], clnt checks whether any retrieved row has its first two fields equal to
w and id(B⋆
i,ℓ). If none does, clnt sets σw(Bi,ℓ+1,j) = 0, for all j ∈[r], where Bi,ℓ+1,j
is the j-th child of B⋆
i,ℓ. Otherwise, clnt sets σw(Bi,ℓ+1,j) to the (j + 2)-th field of the
matching row.
(c) clnt computes σQ(Bi,ℓ+1,j) = P
w∈Q σw(Bi,ℓ+1,j) for every child of every node in Fℓ.
(d) clnt locally ranks these child nodes according to σQ and lets Fℓ+1 be the set of the top
min{W, |Tℓ+1|} nodes.
3. clnt outputs FH = {B⋆
1,H, . . . , B⋆
W,H} as top W leaf block.
Stage 2: Sub-Block Retrieval
1. For each w ∈Q do
(a) clnt sends PIR to srv, retrieving rows (hi∈[m](w, id(B⋆
1,H)), . . . , hi∈[m](w, id(B⋆
W,H)))
(m × W rows total) from DBtree,H
(b) For each i ∈[W], clnt checks if any of the retrieved data has the first two field equal to w
and id(B⋆
i,H). If there are non, clnt sets σw(SBi,H,j) = 0 for all sub-block SBi,H,j of
Bi,H, else clnt matches corresponding σw(SBi,H,j) with the j + 2-th retrieved value of
the corresponding row matches (w, Bi,H).
2. clnt computes σQ(SBi,H,j) = P
w∈Q
σw(SBi,H,j) for all sub-blocks of top-W leaf block.
3. clnt locally rank and get set of top ks sub-blocks SB⋆
1, . . . , SB⋆
ks
Stage 3: Dense Retrieval and Ranking
1. clnt sends PIR query to srv, retrieving rows (id(SB⋆
1), . . . , id(SB⋆
ks)) from DBvector
2. Let Dcand = {D⋆
1, . . . , D⋆
ks×s} be set of ks × s documents whose embedding vectors are
retrieved. clnt locally computes cos(eQ, eD⋆
j ) for all j ∈[ks × s] and ranks the score
3. Client output top k documents in Dcand with highest similarity.
Figure 14: The BM25-Tree protocol for privacy-preserving lexical pruning with dense re-ranking.
Hence, the total PIR cost of the PILLAR-Tree protocol is
PIRCosttree =
H−1
X
ℓ=1
PIRCost(mWq⋆, ⌈Nℓ/α⌉, r + 2)
+ PIRCost(mWq⋆, ⌈NH/α⌉, ⌈B/s⌉+ 2)
+ PIRCost(ks, ⌈N/s⌉, sd)
Local computation.
The client local computation involves computing block score at each level
between the input query and retrieved blocks’ children. This costs O(mWrq⋆) at each level from
ℓ= 2, . . . , H −1 (the first level has only 1 node so it does not require any computation). At sub
block level, client performs the subblock score computation, costing O(mW⌈B/s⌉q⋆). Finally, the
client computes the cosine similarity between his query and ks × s retrieved document embeddings,
resulting in O(kssd) computation.
Thus, the client local computation costs O(mWrHq⋆+ mW⌈B/s⌉q⋆+ kssd)
25


Protocol 3: Full PPRAG based on PILLAR
Participants. Server srv and client clnt.
Public parameters. Corpus C of N documents:C = {D1, . . . , DN}, Set params of parameters
for PILLAR (PILLAR-Bin/PILLAR-Tree) retrieval algorithm.
Client input. Keyword query Q = {w1, . . . , w|Q|}.
Server state (initialized / preprocessing).
1. srv runs PILLAR initialization on params
2. srv runs PILLAR preprocessing on C, params
3. srv and clnt preprocess C for PIR, each document Di ∈C associate with an identifier
i ∈[N].
Retrieval
1. clnt and srv participate in private retrieval PILLAR protocol on Q and C, clnt
receive indices top-k documents in C with respect to Q. Call the set IDtop−k =
{D⋆
1, . . . , D⋆
k}
2. clnt runs PIR to retrieve content of k documents D⋆
1, . . . , D⋆
k.
Generation
clnt runs local LLM to generate answer with input query Q and k documents D⋆
1, . . . , D⋆
k,
output answer A
Figure 15: PILLAR-based PPRAG protocol. clnt and srv participates in online secure retrieval
before clnt runs inference on its local LLM.
G
DETAILED SECURITY ANALYSIS
We prove that both protocols provide security against a semi-honest server. Security is formally
defined via the standard simulation paradigm.
We first define computationally private PIR ideal functionality as:
Definition 1 (Computationally Private PIR (Kushilevitz and Ostrovsky, 1997; Chor and Gilboa,
1997)). A single-server PIR scheme ΠP IR = (Query, Answer, Decode) over a database DB of N
records satisfies:
1. Correctness: For any index i ∈[N]:
Pr[Decode(Answer(DB, Query(i))) = DB[i]] ≥1 −negl(λ).
2. Computationally Private: for all indices i, j ∈[N] and all PPT distinguishers D:
Pr

D(QueryΠ(i)) = 1

−Pr

D(QueryΠ(j)) = 1
 ≤negl(λ).
Before stating the main theorems, we establish a composition lemma that underpins the security of
PILLAR-Tree’s multi-round interaction.
Lemma 2 (Sequential PIR Composition). Let ΠP IR be a computationally private PIR scheme. Let
T = T(λ) be a polynomial. Any protocol that issues a sequence of T independent PIR queries, where
T is determined solely by public parameters, remains computationally private against a semi-honest
server.
Proof. Define a sequence of hybrid experiments H0, H1, . . . , HT where Hℓdenotes the distribution
in which the first ℓPIR queries are replaced by simulated queries QueryΠ(ui) for independently
uniform ui
$←−[N], while the remaining T −ℓqueries are real. H0 is the real server view; HT is the
fully simulated view.
26


By Definition 1, for each ℓ∈[T] and every PPT distinguisher D:
Pr[D(Hℓ−1) = 1] −Pr[D(Hℓ) = 1]
 ≤negl(λ).
Summing over T = poly(λ) hybrids, the total distinguishing advantage is at most T · negl(λ) =
negl(λ), completing the proof.
Theorem 1 (Security of PILLAR-Bin (1-round)). Suppose ΠP IR is a computationally private PIR
scheme (Definition 1). Then Protocol 1 (PILLAR-Bin, Figure 12 ) is secure against a semi-honest
server.
Proof. Server’s real view. The server srv performs all preprocessing locally and therefore al-
ready knows the full hash table. During retrieval, srv’s view consists solely of the β PIR queries
{QueryΠ(ri)}β
i=1 issued by the client, where ri = H(wi) mod R for keyword wi ∈V ∪{⊥} in the
padded/truncated Q. No other message passes from clnt to srv.
Simulation. Construct Sim as follows: given only the public parameters (N, R, k, λ) and the fixed
query length β, output {QueryΠ(ui)}β
i=1 where each ui
$←−[R] is independently uniform.
Indistinguishability. The simulated view consists of β uniformly random PIR queries; the real
view consists of β PIR queries for indices r1, . . . , rβ ∈[R] determined by the query keywords.
By Lemma 2 (applied with database size R and T = β queries), the real and simulated views are
computationally indistinguishable, completing the proof.
Theorem 2 (Security of PILLAR-Bin (2-round)). Suppose Π(1)
P IR, Π(2)
P IR is a computationally pri-
vate PIR scheme (Definition 1) on the index database DB and the vector database DBEmb respectively.
Then Protocol 1 (PILLAR-Bin, Figure 13 ) is secure against a semi-honest server.
Proof. Server’s real view. The server srv performs all preprocessing locally and therefore already
knows the full hash table. During retrieval,
• First round: srv’s view consists solely of the β PIR queries {Query(1)
Π (ri)}β
i=1 issued by
the client, where ri = H(wi) mod R for keyword wi ∈V ∪{⊥} in the padded/truncated
Q.
• Second round: srv’s view consists of β′ queries {Query(2)
Π (ζi)}β′
i=1 where ζi ∈I⋆6 to
the embedding database DBEmb issued by the client, where β′ is a known public parameter.
No other message passes from clnt to srv. We note that de-duplication and removal of ⊥on
retrieval step 3 of Figure 13 are happening locally at client for internal score ranking, and clnt still
sends a constant payload of β′ queries in step 4-5 regardless of deduplication/removal results of step
3.
Simulation. Construct Sim as follows: given only the public parameters (N, R, k, λ) and the fixed
query lengths β, β′, output {Query(1)
Π (ui)}β
i=1, {Query(2)
Π (zi)}β′
i=1 where each ui
$←−[R], zi
$←−[N]
are independently uniform.
Indistinguishability. The simulated view consists of β + β′ uniformly random PIR queries; the real
view consists of β PIR queries for indices r1, . . . , rβ ∈[R], ζ1, . . . , ζβ′ ∈[N], determined by the
query keywords. By Lemma 2 (applied with database size R and T = β queries; database size N
and T = β′ queries), the real and simulated views are computationally indistinguishable, completing
the proof.
Theorem 3 (Security of PILLAR-Tree). Suppose ΠP IR is a computationally private PIR scheme
(Definition 1). Then Protocol 2 (PILLAR-Tree, Figure 14) is secure against a semi-honest server
Proof. PILLAR-Tree proceeds in three sequential rounds; we analyze each in turn and then apply
Lemma 2.
6I⋆denotes the padded/truncated version of I with β′ items, as described in Retrieval Step 4, Figure 13
27


Round 1 (Block-Max Tree Traversal). At level ℓ∈{1, . . . , H} of the r-ary tree with height
H = 1 + ⌈logr(N/B)⌉, the client expands the beam frontier Fℓ−1 of at most W nodes by fetching
the block-max scores of all |Fℓ−1| · r ≤W · r children via PIR. Because W and r are public
parameters, the number of PIR queries at each level is at most W · r regardless of the query content
Q. The server therefore observes at most H · W · r PIR queries over a database of Nnodes tree nodes,
where Nnodes and H · L · r are both fixed public quantities.
Round 2 (Sub-Block Retrieval). The client fetches block-max scores for exactly Z = W · (B/s)
sub-blocks, a count determined entirely by public parameters (W, B, s). The server observes exactly
Z PIR queries over the sub-block database.
Round 3 (Dense Embedding Fetch). The client fetches exactly ks · s document embeddings via PIR
over the database of N documents. The count ks · s is a fixed public parameter.
Sequential Composition. The total number of PIR queries across all three rounds is T = H · W · r +
Z +ks·s, which is a deterministic polynomial function of the public parameters. By Lemma 2 applied
to this T-query sequence, the server’s view across all rounds is computationally indistinguishable
from a simulation issuing T uniformly random PIR queries, completing the proof.
Remark 3 (Access-Pattern Privacy). A critical property enabling Theorems 1, 2, and 3 is
that the number of PIR queries per round is a deterministic function of public parameters
(N, B, s, r, W, ks, q⋆, β, β′), independent of the query content Q. This eliminates access-pattern
leakage: the server cannot distinguish any two queries of equal length |Q| = q⋆. By contrast,
adaptive protocols such as PACMANN must pad short-circuit executions with dummy queries to
hide early convergence, introducing both efficiency overhead and a potential timing side-channel if
padding is imperfect.
Remark 4 (Correctness of Algorithms). We follow the common practice of finding approximate
nearest neighbor of modern framework like HNSW (Malkov and Yashunin, 2018) or FAISS (Johnson
et al., 2019): The retrieval correctness are not formally analyzed but rather showed by empirically
evaluate it using benchmark dataset (Aumüller et al., 2018). Thus, we show the correctness
experimentally in Section 5 and omit the proof on theoretical correctness gap between PILLAR-Bin,
PILLAR-Tree and the ideal top-k nearest neighbors search.
H
PIR PILLAR-TR E E DATABASE VIA CUCKOO HASHING
Notation. With the term Tree(C) we denote the tree build upon corpus C while with the term Lℓwe
denote the collection of superblocks of layer ℓof the tree. We use H = O(logr |C|/|B|) to denote
the height of the tree. For ease of exposition, we may abuse the notation B for both the block and
the super block in the tree. Let id(Bℓ) denote the index of block Bℓwithin level ℓ. The client can
compute this value locally, i.e., to fetch, say, the 4th node of level ℓ, it simply sets id(Bℓ) = 4.
Storage Blowup. Recall the initial proposal from the main paper in which at each level ℓ, every super
block B ∈Lℓis associated with an array of |V| integers storing the upper bounds. Such an array
is extremely sparse (most of its entries are 0) so this representation wastes a substantial amount of
storage. Crucially, the cost is not confined to space, i.e., PIR performance scales with the size of the
PIR database, which here is O(|Lℓ| · |V|) for level ℓ, so the same redundancy inflates query time as
well. Summing over all levels, representing each level as a concatenation of |Lℓ| sparse arrays forces
the server to store O(P
ℓ|Lℓ| · |V|) integers, the vast majority of which are 0.
Proposed Optimization. In order to reduce the PIR database storage, for each level ℓon the tree,
we present its corresponding PIR database as a dictionary (specifically, a hash map) of key-value
pairs where the key is the string key = w||id(Bℓ) and the value is value = σw(Bℓ)||w||id(Bℓ). The
dictionary stores an entry only for those blocks whose score is non-zero, i.e., σw(Bℓ) > 0, which is
precisely what eliminates the sparsity of the previous representation. This, however, means the client
may issue a query on a combination of w and id(Bℓ)) that has no entry in the dictionary. Because our
dictionary always returns some entry (it cannot signal that a key is absent) the client needs a way to
tell a genuine answer from an unrelated entry it happened to collide with. Repeating w ∥id(Bℓ) inside
value supplies exactly this check; the client compares the returned suffix against the key it queried,
and interprets a mismatch as σw(Bℓ) = 0. Concretely, on level ℓof Tree(C), let Nℓbe the number
of dictionary entries such that w ∈V, Bℓon level ℓof the tree, and σw(Bℓ) > 0. Thus, we have
28


Nℓ≪|Lℓ| · |V|. The hash map is implemented via a Cuckoo Hash Table, with load factor α, which
has O(1) search time. We use m hash functions h1, . . . , hm : V × Lℓ→[Nℓ/α] to map dictionary
entries to a table of Nℓ/α slots such that each slot contains at most one key-value pair, and the entry
(w||id, σw(Bℓ)||w||id(Bℓ)) is mapped to slot hi(w||id) for one i ∈{1, . . . , m}. For an empty row in
Cuckoo table, the data is (⊥, 0). At query time, suppose the client wishes to learn the score of a block
Bc ∈Lℓwith respect to one of its own keywords wc. It forms the key keyc = wc ∥id(Bc), issues m
PIR queries for the candidate slots h1(keyc), . . . , hm(keyc), and receives m values. Applying the
check described above, the client compares each returned suffix against keyc to verify if this word
appears in the corresponding superblock.
Complexity. On layer ℓof the tree, the new representation incurs m · w · r · |Q| queries on a database
of size Nℓ/α · 3 (Nℓ/α rows, three fields per row). On comparison, the old, unoptimized version has
w · r · |Q| queries on a database of size |V| · |Lℓ| (i.e., |V| · |Lℓ| rows with one field per row). In total
over H levels, the storage size of the new representation is PH
ℓ=1 Nℓ/α comparing to the old cost of
O(|V| · |C|
|B|), where PH
ℓ=1 Nℓ≪PH
ℓ=1 |Lℓ| · |V| = O(|V| · |C|
|B|).
I
SUPPLEMENTARY DETAILS
I.1
FULL TESTBED.
We detail the extra details regarding our testbed that would be too verbose for the main body:
We also test LAN latency in Appendix D, which has 1000 megabits per second bandwidth and 5
millisecond round-trip-time. Every configuration was given 120 GB of RAM, with the exception of
PILLAR-Bin configurations that: hold the embedding database in memory and have more than 1.5K
documents per row, those were run on a machine with 1 TB of RAM. For SciFact’s document/query
embeddings we used 192-dimension embeddings created from the e5-base-v2 (Wang et al., 2024)
embedding function. For MS MARCO’s document/query embeddings we used 192-dimension
embeddings created from the msmarco-MiniLM-L-6-v3 (The same as PACMANN did, to
keep the comparison fair), Sentence-BERT bi-encoder (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019), built on
MiniLM (Wang et al., 2020) and fine-tuned on MS MARCO. We ran our LLM/AI experiments on a
single NVIDIA A100 (80GB VRAM) and fixed the RAGAS evaluation stage to the same 100 queries
per dataset.
I.2
HYBRID RETRIEVAL IN PRACTICE.
Combining lexical and dense retrieval is a standard, first-class feature of the search engines on which
RAG pipelines are built. Elasticsearch exposes a reciprocal rank fusion (RRF) retriever (Cormack
et al., 2009) that merges the rankings of a BM25 query and a k-NN query into a single result
list (Elastic). OpenSearch introduced a dedicated hybrid query in version 2.11 that normalizes and
combines keyword and neural scores inside the engine (OpenSearch Project). Weaviate runs vector
and BM25 search in parallel and fuses the two result sets with a configurable weighting (Weaviate).
Azure AI Search likewise executes keyword and vector queries in parallel and merges them with RRF,
and its documentation reports that, in most benchmark tests, hybrid queries with semantic reranking
return the most relevant results (Microsoft). A Microsoft whitepaper, drawing on production RAG
applications serving billions of queries per day, describes hybrid search with reranking as “table stakes”
for RAG (Berntson et al.). Model providers make the same recommendation: Anthropic’s Contextual
Retrieval pipeline pairs embeddings with BM25, and adding the BM25 component reduced the
top-20 retrieval failure rate from 3.7% to 2.9% (Anthropic, 2024). These sources establish that
hybrid retrieval is broadly supported and recommended in practice; they do not constitute a census of
deployed systems, and many simple RAG pipelines remain dense-only.
29
