Title: FLNet_Paper

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.20650v1

Published Time: Fri, 18 Sep 2026 01:35:31 GMT

Number of Pages: 69

Markdown Content:
Multi-center Medical Data Mining with FL-Net - A One-stop Shop for Federated Learning 

Simon Süwer 1* , Julian Klemm 1* , Elisa Acitelli 2, Mathieu Almeida 22 , Lucia Altucci 3,Zsolt Bagyura 4, Michelangela Barbieri 5, Zsolt-Zoltán Bedő 6, Rosaria Benedetti 3, Béla Bihari 6, Csongor Csalóka 6, Lucia Dicunta 1, Stanislav Ehrlich 7, Bjoern M. Eskofier 8,9 ,Sándor-József Fejér 6, Georg Fröwis 10 , Walter Hötzendorfer 10 , Alexandra Kautzky-Willer 11 , Jens Johann Georg Lohmann 1, Marianna Maranghi 2, Lorenzo Marconi 12 , Rudolf Mayer 13 , Wouter Leonard Megchelenbrink 3, Monika Moga 6, Adham Mottalib 14 , Sanjeev Mehta 14 , Madeleine Müller 10 , Thomas Nyström 15,16 , Balázs-Attila Orbán 6, Paul O'Toole 17 , Giuseppe Paolisso 5, Paolo Parini 18,19 , Matteo Pedrelli 18,19 ,Enrico Petrillo 20 , Philipp Poindl 10 , Niklas Probul 1, Anastasia Pustozerova 13 , Tanja Šarčević 13 , Lukas Weilguny 22 , Jan Baumbach 1,21† , Andreas Maier 1† * The first two authors should be regarded as Joint First Authors. † The last two authors should be regarded as Joint Last Authors. 

> 1

Institute for Computational Systems Biomedicine, University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany 2 Department of Translational and Precision Medicine, Sapienza University of Rome, Italy 3 Department of Precision Medicine, University of Campania Luigi Vanvitelli, Naples, Italy 4 Institute for Clinical Data Management, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary 5 Department of Advanced Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Campania Luigi Vanvitelli, Naples, Italy 6 SC Egnosis SRL, Sfântu Gheorghe, Romania 7 Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, London, UK 8 Chair of AI-supported Therapy Decisions, LMU München, Munich, Germany 9 Institute of AI in Medicine, LMU Hospital, Munich, Germany 10 Research Institute – Digital Human Rights Center, Vienna, Austria 11 Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine III, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria 12 Department of Computer, Control and Management Engineering, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy 13 SBA Research gGmbH, Vienna, Austria 14 Joslin Diabetes Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA 15 Department of clinical science and education, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden 16 Department of Internal Medicine, Södersjukhuset, Stockholm, Sweden 17 School of Microbiology and APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland 18 Medicine Unit of Endocrinology, Theme Inflammation and Ageing, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden 19 Cardio Metabolic Unit, Department of Laboratory Medicine, and Department of Medicine at Huddinge, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden 20 Mass General Brigham, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA 21 Institute for Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark 22 Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, MGP, 78350, Jouy-en-Josas, France. Abstract 

Federated learning enables collaborative training without sharing patient-level data, but most studies remain simulations. Based on five requirements derived from the literature, we analyzed 14 FL frameworks and found that none fully satisfied these requirements. 

We present FL-Net, a novel federated clinical research framework to fulfill all requirements. It integrates modular data harmonization, data discovery, disclosure control, securely built versioned FL-Net-Tools and containerized federated workflow execution into a persistent network. It enables the re-use of harmonized data and workflows across studies. FL-Net’s end-to-end capabilities were evaluated through harmonization, cross-study patient discovery across MIMIC and US-130, and reproducible, audited federated workflows with up to 50 concurrent clients. FL-Net is being developed within the dAIbetes and Microb-AI-ome EU projects and will cover over 800,000 patients across 10 hospitals in 9 countries covering longitudinal and single point in time data, FL-Net provides a practical foundation for interoperable, reproducible, and privacy-preserving multicenter clinical research. 

# Introduction 

The development of robust machine-learning models necessitates the availability of sufficiently large and heterogeneous datasets, which are required to capture the variation present across patient populations, clinical practices, and healthcare systems. However, clinical data is distributed, sensitive, and tightly regulated to adequately protect everyone's 

foundational right to privacy 1–3 . Federated learning (FL) offers a conceptually elegant solution 

to this dilemma 4.

FL allows multiple institutions to train a shared model collaboratively without the need to combine their patient-level data. To achieve this, each institution trains the model locally on their Site (For definitions of all italicized nomenclature introduced in this work, refer to the Supplementary Information Glossary, Supplementary Data S6). Each Site only exchanges model parameters, which are then aggregated to improve the shared model. 

However, FL is barely applied in real-world studies. This is evident from various systematic reviews. One review, which examined more than 20 thousand data records and included 612 

studies, found that only 5.2% of the studies related to clinical applications in practice 1.

Another study found that only 23.1% of the evaluated studies specified detailed inclusion 

criteria, and limited access to code and data hindered external validation 5. Furthermore, FL 

studies in healthcare often lack Site authentication and lack a fully specified implementation 

of institutional governance 6. Overall, based on these findings, none of the existing FL 

frameworks currently meets all the demands of federated clinical research. 

Based on existing literature, we define the main requirements to federated clinical research frameworks (Supplementary S5): (RE1) heterogeneous local information systems require 

semantic and syntactic harmonization as well as systematic quality control 1,5–7 ; (RE2) Sites 

updates, metadata, and outputs require auditable privacy and security controls 1,6,8 ; (RE3) 

federated workflows should remain reusable and versioned across Sites and models 9–11 ;

(RE4) suitable data feasibility and subsetting must be established before training without exposing patient records 6,7 ; and (RE5) approvals, versions, Sites , and outputs must remain 

traceable to support reproducible and accountable studies 1,6,7  (Supplementary S5). 

After defining clear criteria for the partial or complete fulfillment of these requirements and analyzing 14 FL frameworks (Table 1), we found that no existing framework fully satisfies all requirements. The evaluation criteria and the detailed analysis of each framework are provided in Supplementary Information S5. We therefore introduce FL-Net (Fig. 1), a novel FL framework to fulfill all previously defined requirements and built with and for two large EU 

project consortia (Fig. 1) 12,13 .

Table 1 - Feature comparison of representative FL frameworks: ✓ indicates the requirement is fully implemented, (✓) indicates that the capability exists, but it is limited or requires substantial external work, – indicates the requirement is not fulfilled. Cell entries reflect the authors’ interpretation of each framework's published description as described in the analysis provided in Supplementary Information S5, which also describes the criteria used to determine full, partial or no fulfillment of the requirements. *No longer maintained (<10 commits on GitHub in the last 2 years). † Closed-source software. 

Framework  RE1  RE2  RE3  RE4  RE5 

†Apheris 14  – ✓ (✓) (✓) ✓

†CAFEIN 15  – (✓) – – ✓

DataSHIELD 16  (✓) (✓) (✓) (✓) ✓

*FATE 17  – (✓) (✓) (✓) (✓)

FeatureCloud 18  – (✓) ✓ – (✓)

Fed-BioMed 19  (✓) ✓ (✓) (✓) ✓

Flower 20  – (✓) (✓) (✓) ✓

MedPerf 21  (✓) – – – –

NVIDIA FLARE 22  (✓) ✓ (✓) (✓) (✓)

OpenFL 23  – (✓) (✓) (✓) (✓)

*Personal Health Train 24  – ✓ ✓ – (✓)

PySyft 25  – ✓ (✓) (✓) (✓)

†Rhino FCP 26  (✓) ✓ (✓) (✓) (✓)

Vantage6 27  – ✓ (✓) (✓) ✓

FL-Net  ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

FL-Net integrates the entire lifecycle of FL into a persistent, star-shaped network infrastructure. A global FL-Net Platform coordinates all steps, while the Sites retain their data and decision-making autonomy. As a result, institutions need to only maintain a single, outgoing, authenticated connection to the Platform .

FL-Net describes clinical data semantically and syntactically (Supplementary S1, Method 

Figure 6). Ontology-Nodes (NO) define clinical concepts and their relationships 28–30 ,DataType-Nodes (NDT) specify permissible values and validation rules and Schema-Nodes 

(NS) either link these NS or group other NS. A Schema is organized as a tree of NS that either groups subordinate nodes or terminates in a leaf defined by a PO-DT (Fig. 3A, Method Fig. 6A). Since the architecture is ontology-agnostic, established or organization-specific ontologies 

can be used 31,32 .

Figure 1 - FL-Net for federated learning: The Platform combines (1) a globally defined data standard with decentralized institutional Sites . Ontology-Nodes (green), DataType-Nodes (yellow), and Schemas (blue) form the basis for distributed data harmonization and the identification of suitable patient data. At the Platform , patient data availability is queried (2), projects are configured (3), and federated learning runs are orchestrated (4). The corresponding requests are transmitted to the participating FL-Net Sites via secure communication channels. There, the clinical data is organized in cohorts and remains under Site control: cohorts are created and data is imported locally (I), patient data discovery queries are executed returning only aggregated counts (II), requests are verified (III), learning is started (IV), and workflow applications are launched in an isolated execution environment (V). On Site training and analysis results are logged and returned to the Platform exclusively as derived results, model parameters, or metrics. An aggregated model is then versioned and stored in the central artifact repository (5). Audit information accompanies the processing steps and enables traceability of data access, approvals, and executions. The stored Inference-Tool can be used by other users and executed on the Platform with user-provided data, providing an easy, no-code entry point (6). 

Local, Site-specific clinical data goes through a modular, reproducible, validated and auditable extract, transform, load (ETL) process with an added step of mapping columns to NS. Invalid values are rejected and reported back to the responsible users based on validation rules of the connected NDT. Subsequently, the validated data is stored locally in a longitudinal long entity-attribute-value (EAV) database that links NS, patients, visits, time points, and connectors. Patient data is organized into one or multiple cohorts at each Site .This allows institutions to maintain different source systems while still providing a common internal representation for all processes. The FL process begins with the semantically controlled selection of suitable data (Fig. 2). 

Researchers formulate an ontology-based data discovery query (DDQ) whose elements refer to global NO NDT Pairs (PO-DT) (Supplementary S2). Each Site resolves these references against its own Schema and uses them to generate a local SQL query across its harmonized dataset. The logical DDQ thus remains unchanged across different institutions and local data structures. Before results are returned to the Platform , the Site applies privacy and security measures to protect from identification and membership attacks. The Site checks cohort-specific permissions and enforces minimum thresholds for patient counts, with small patient counts suppressed and others rounded. DDQs and matching patients are logged locally. The Platform receives only controlled, aggregated counts or separately requested statistics. The individual statistics are protected by the same security mechanisms used by the DDQ. These show whether institutions can contribute suitable data, are potentially biased, and which Schema elements are available for the planned learning, without revealing patient-level information. 

If a sufficient number of patients are discovered, the DDQ can be the starting point for a federated project (Fig. 2). Here, researchers can define a set of variables to use for FL based on the DDQ related Schema information. The project is then linked to a versioned workflow. A workflow is a directed acyclic graph of Tools , used for code execution. Each Tool 

is a versioned, reusable, and auditable application with defined inputs and outputs, hyperparameters, publication, and certification statuses. Tools can be used for extraction or transformation of patient data inside each Sites ETL process. Tools may also serve as 

FL-Tools , achieving preprocessing, analysis, ML, and other data analysis tasks. Lastly, trained models may be used to create Inference-Tools , which can either be used in FL or by 

users directly 33 . Researchers can select suitable Tools without having to create a new 

execution environment for each project. Figure 2 - Federated Learning Workflow and Execution Architecture in FL-Net: The FL process is initiated by sending an ontology-based DDQ to select semantically and syntactically defined subsets of cohorts (1). The DDQ is linked to a project, in which an eligible variable set can be created from DDQ-related Schemas and used with a versioned federated workflow (2). Subsequently, the FL-Net Platform creates and coordinates an FL project run (3). Initially, an FL request is sent. Sites 

are responsible for independently reviewing and authorizing FL requests and approving patients for the FL project run. At any time patient-level data remains within institutional boundaries. Counts of approved patient data for the FL project run are sent to the Platform , undergoing the same disclosure control as the DDQ. Once sufficient Sites (default 3) have agreed and sufficient patients are available, the Researcher can start the FL project run. Running the FL project locks the set of agreed Sites ,other Sites agreeing later are left out. During the FL project run, local model updates are sent to the coordinator, aggregated, and redistributed for subsequent rounds. Tool execution is secured by a certification system as well as being executed in isolation with limited network access. All workflows, 

Tools , runs, metrics, and resulting models are versioned and persisted, thereby ensuring reproducibility, traceability, and governance throughout the learning lifecycle. The resulting model and their metrics may only be available at participating Sites depending on the agreed-upon FL request for privacy and IP-right reasons. 

Once a project is configured, the researcher can send an FL request (Fig. 2). The participating Sites review this request independently and decide whether and to what extent they will participate. Training can be started by the Researcher only after a sufficient number of Sites and thereby patients have been approved. The acceptance count also follows the DDQ rounding. Tool execution always happens in isolated containers and accesses only the approved patients and defined networks. Patient data never leaves the Site .

The results of the run are then returned to the participating Sites and saved as a local artifact. In addition to the model metrics, project information, run statuses, and cohort provenance are stored. The final model or its metrics are only forwarded to the Platform 

upon request approval by the participating Sites .

FL-Net makes it possible to use heterogeneous clinical data from multiple Sites for FL. Each dataset has been imported via quality-assured ETL processes. For suitable patient data discovery, FL-Net uses the DDQ. Training facilitates the automatic documentation of workflows, approvals, versions, and results, enabling reproducible and responsible research. The resulting models can be directly converted into Inference-Tools within the Platform and made available to other Researchers for inference processes. Thus, FL-Net harmonizes data across local Sites , supports Researchers in data retrieval, simplifies and isolates the training process, and manages FL training results via its Tool -Store .

# Results 

## FL-Net implements a hierarchical Schema system for semantic and syntactic data harmonization (RE1) 

To enable interoperable data description across heterogeneous partner Sites , we developed 

a semantic and syntactic framework for FL-Net, influenced in part by BioCyhper 34 . Each 

cohort is linked to a Schema (Fig. 3A, Method Fig. 6A). Local raw data is harmonized through no-code, reusable, and audited connectors that define the ETL to the target Schema (Fig. 3B). Users can select transformations, map columns to NS, and optionally attach metadata, such as timestamps. During import, the data is transformed and validated against NS constraints. Any invalid values are rejected and reported. Sites that use the same Schema are harmonized by design, while different 

Schemas are partially harmonized by resolving to shared PO-DT. 

We evaluated FL-Net's semantic and syntactic harmonization using the inherently different 

US-130 diabetes and MIMIC-IV 2.2 ICU datasets (Supplementary S1) 35–37 . We preprocessed 

the US-130 dataset in different ways to demonstrate the varying capacities and adaptability of the ETL process.           

> Figure 3 - Semantic and syntactic harmonization and its evaluation across heterogeneous datasets: A) FL-Net represents data Schemas through linked NO and NDT (Method Fig. 6). B) Local source data is harmonized through reusable ETL connectors that extract, transform, validate, and load data into the target Schema (Method Fig. 6). C) Structurally different Schemas remain interoperable when their NS resolve to shared PO-DT, enabling semantic reuse across datasets and standards. The Schemas from US-130 and MIMIC-IV are 100% overlapping. D) Harmonization was evaluated on the US-130 diabetes dataset, artificially transformed US-130 variants representing heterogeneous encodings and source formats, and the MIMIC-IV v2.2 ICU dataset. Details can be found in Supplementary S1. All of the evaluated data were successfully transformed into
> Schema-compliant representations. Despite differences in coding systems, formatting, and missing-value conventions, 100% of the evaluated records were imported.

All Sites achieved complete, Schema-compliant representations through configuration alone (Fig. 3 C-D, Table S1.3), successfully mapping all required variables. Importantly, harmonization was not restricted to a single shared Schema . A 100% overlap of the MIMIC-IV and US-130 dataset Schemas could be achieved, making the distinct US-130 and MIMIC-IV datasets remain completely interoperable purely by configuration of ETL connectors, transforming source data and mapping to their respective Schema .Consequently, validation against type constraints and allowed value domains yielded no rejections or type conversions. This demonstrates that different complex cohorts, such as US-130 and MIMIC-IV 2.2, can be represented within the same harmonization framework. 

## Layered privacy and security, including auditing with fine grained Site holder controls (RE2) 

To ensure that Site-Owners retain full control over their local patient data, FL-Net provides 

Site-controlled disclosure safeguards from DDQ through FL project execution. Site-Owners 

define who may search their data for each cohort. Unauthorized DDQs are rejected. To prevent re-identification attacks that exploit small, deliberate changes to DDQ parameters, 

Site-Owners additionally set a suppression threshold (default 100). Results below this suppression threshold are reported as zero. Remaining positive counts (c) are rounded upward to the nearest multiple m(c) of the rounding step, defined as: 

The reported count p(c) is calculated as: 

For example, 123 becomes 130 and 5555 becomes 5600; exact multiples remain unchanged (Supplementary 2.2). Furthermore, the Site-Owner can configure a minimum response time interval for repeated queries. The same cohort-level access permissions are checked when evaluating an FL request to determine whether it may use the cohort for training. Site-Owners can additionally exclude individual patients from specific training runs. Training workflows only contain vetted Tools . Every Tool is built through the FL-Net build pipeline, undergoes automated vulnerability/malware scanning, and can be certified by 

Auditors . During execution, Tools run in a containerized, encapsulated environment and can only communicate with authorized components and networks. All FL communication of local models towards other Sites or the aggregator is transport encrypted (Methods - Security and Privacy). Each interaction with patient data is logged. This includes changes to patient data within the Site , as well as interactions with the Platform , such as DDQ, and FL projects that are requested or executed, together with the Tools and versions involved. Site-Owners can search this record at any time providing a persistent, verifiable account of how and by whom the data they govern was accessed. 

## Suitable patient discovery must be established before training without exposing patient records (RE4) 

To enable federation-wide data exploration, FL-Net provides a user-centered discovery system for cross-Schema and cross-Site DDQs. Each DDQ contains multiple conditions. Each condition targets a specific PO-DT and supports logical or mathematical operators with optional reference values. Conditions are combined using logical conjunction to identify matching patients and return aggregated counts. The system provides federation-wide visibility into patient discovery while returning only aggregated counts. Individual patient records remain local and the previously described disclosure controls protect against re-identification. 

To evaluate the DDQ, we sent several queries to four Sites (Supplementary S2.3). Three 

Sites included US-130 patients, and one included MIMIC-IV patients. Each Site resolved and executed the DDQ locally, counted matching patients, applied its suppression-and-rounding policy and returned only the approved aggregate count. As can be seen in the Supplementary Table S2.1, the repeated runs yielded identical results, which confirms the deterministic DDQ. Counts above the configured threshold were rounded up, while small counts were suppressed and reported as zero. Since the same DDQ was sent to different Sites with different Schemas (but overlapping PO-DT, Supplementary Fig. S1.1) and could be executed by them, we were able to demonstrate the cross-Schema DDQ functionality. The resulting rounded sum was calculated correctly. This allows data to be discovered and FL to be performed even with differently structured cohorts simply by aligning to existing Schemas , or at least NS, on data addition. 

Consequently, FL-Net enables reproducible semantic patient data discovery while preventing identifying counts from being transferred from Sites .

## Comprehensive versioning, auditing, and artifact management ensure traceability and reproducibility (RE3 & RE5) 

FL-Net enables the execution of federated workflows consisting exclusively of verifiable, versioned Tools from the Tool-Store . For each training session, the Site-Owners , using immutable project configurations, are requested to participate. If the Site has found patients for the linked DDQ, the project request is displayed to the Site-Owner . Out of all matching patients, the Site-Owners can specify which patients should participate in the training. This ensures that only patients approved by the Site-Owner are included. The Site-Owner can review the NS (patient variables) and which Tools are used in the workflow. Upon completion of a project, execution logs, metrics, and associated artifacts are archived at the respective hospitals. With the consent of the participating institutions, Inference-Tools 

can be published globally in the Tool-Store , linked to project information, and containing all necessary artifacts produced by the FL. This allows analyses to be reproduced and models to be reused in a targeted manner. We evaluated FL in predicting the binary target 30-day readmissions training aMLPClassifier and comparing three training approaches with identical data partitions (Fig. 4): I) isolated single Site training; II) FL; and III) centralized training on pooled data. The evaluation setup is shown in Supplementary S3. The US-130 clinical dataset was divided based on clinic affiliation and performance evaluated across a varying number of Sites .

Figure 4 - Evaluation A) and provenance B) workflow for FL-Net: A) The evaluation setup follows six sequential stages: (1) The US-130 diabetes dataset is distributed across up to 50 simulated clinical Sites and is preprocessed independently to introduce realistic institutional heterogeneity. The data was split based on the clinic to which each patient belongs. (2) Each Site maps local variables to ontology concepts, performs ETL, and validates the resulting data against shared Schema and NDT definitions. (3) DDQs are sent to all Sites , executed locally under disclosure control, and only returned as aggregated patient counts. (4) Based on the aggregated discovered patient sizes, the global user defines and distributes a federated training configuration. (5) Each Site trains the model locally on its own data and sends model updates, such as gradients or weights, to the aggregation layer. For the training set, the data was split using an 80/20 random split. (6) The FedAvg technique is used for the federated aggregations. The final model is then evaluated against central and single Site models. B) 

Changes to DDQs, projects, tools, and inference tools generate immutable versions and enable end-to-end traceability. A specific DDQ forms the basis for a project in which versioned tools, hyperparameters, and selected semantic data variables are combined into a workflow. After initiating an FL execution, participation and data approval are obtained from the Sites . Upon FL start, the participating Sites and approved patient numbers are immutably recorded. Results and artifacts are stored and made accessible in accordance with the granted approvals. With additional consent, a versioned Inference-Tool can be built from a completed project run, which retains the complete provenance for reproducible future use. All information is recorded both on the Platform and at the 

Site .

The single-Site training setting represented institutions operating independently, while the centralized training setting served as an upper-reference scenario. Federated performance was evaluated based on improvement over isolated training and proximity to the centralized reference. Algorithmic details are provided in Supplementary S3. At each Site , the data were stratified by target class and divided into an 80% training set and a 20% internal validation set. For the central comparison, the 80% training sets from the same Sites were combined, and an identical neural network (NN) model with the same number of iterations was trained. This was evaluated on the respective local 20% validation sets (Fig. 5A). In addition, the final federated and central models were tested on the same, completely separate dataset consisting of 26 unseen clinics (Fig. 5B). 

Figure 5 - Federated evaluation: FL achieved higher mean discrimination than isolated local training across participating Sites . A) Per-Site AUROC on each Site stratified, held-out 20% validation split. Local models were trained only on their own clinic’s 80% training portion, the federated model was trained collaboratively on those same clinic-specific training portions, and the central model pooled them. B) AUROC on the fixed unseen-clinic evaluation set (last 26 clinics) for the final federated and central models. The unseen evaluation set contained 20,351 encounters with a readmission prevalence of 11.2%. The runtime was evaluated across federation sizes of 3–50 clients. The values shown are averages across three repetitions and ten federated training rounds per setting. C) shows the mean round duration across the ten training rounds for each federation size. D) shows the same round duration normalized per participating client. The number of clients examined was 3, 5, 10, 25, 33, 40, and 50. FL improved classification performance on the validation data of the participating clients compared to local training (Fig. 5A-B), with the AUROC gain increasing from +0.041 for three Sites to +0.097 for 50 Sites as the federation size grew. Performance varied more widely across the validation clinics. The highest federated AUROC was achieved with ten 

Sites (0.603 vs. 0.555 for the centralized model), while with 50 Sites , the centralized model was slightly superior (0.613 vs. 0.597). This demonstrated that FL-Net is capable of training FL models. 

The round-trip time increased with the size of the Sites (Fig. 5C-D), from an average of 0.92s with three clients to 3.55s with 50 clients. Thus, a 16.7-fold increase in the number of clients resulted in only a 3.9-fold increase in round-trip time. The average runtime per Site per round decreased from 0.307 s to 0.071 s and plateaued at around 25 clients. Over the rounds, the runtime remained stable for each Site size. 

# Discussion 

A main challenge of clinical FL today is the infrastructure required from study planning onwards . Institutions must harmonize heterogeneous data, identify suitable cohorts, and clarify usage rights. Rebuilding these processes for each study limits reproducibility and scalability. FL-Net closes this gap by integrating heterogeneous data, enabling semantic data discovery, providing local disclosure control, ensuring isolated execution, and managing resulting artifacts in a single, reproducible, and traceable end-to-end process. Our evaluation demonstrates this integration in practice (Fig. 4). Despite the heterogeneity of the datasets US-130 and MIMIC-IV, the configurable connectors enabled their conversion into a common, Schema-validated representation. Based on this, the same DDQ could be executed across all Sites . Only aggregated patient counts, protected by thresholds and rounding, were disclosed in this process. The identified patients could then be used to train versioned FL-Tools . The weights from this training could then be transferred to a versioned, connected Inference-Tool . The targeted integration of these steps is largely unaddressed in current research. FL-Net is designed as a sustainable research network, not a temporary infrastructure for a single study. Persistent networks can reuse harmonized patient data via their Schemas and 

Tools in the Tool -Store, reducing integration and coordination costs for subsequent studies .

With each additional Site , the discoverable data space grows. As the scaling experiments show, FL-Net supports a growing number of Sites .

Since all Sites ran for the validation on a shared server, real-world differences in hardware, bandwidth, security policies, and local administration were not reflected (Supplementary S3). Additionally, the evaluation is based on a public datasets and a single prediction task. Future work will assess FL-Net in real-world deployment across multi-center scenarios within the dAIbetes and Microb-AI-ome projects. To streamline data discovery, the automatic resolution of ontology relations for the DDQ, e.g. translating queries from supernodes such as cancer to subnodes such as colorectal cancer, should be investigated. Furthermore, a NDT to NDT data translation system should be investigated, making syntactically different data of the same semantic concept automatically interoperable. Finally, future research should explore integrating alternative FL frameworks. Incorporating a computation-focused framework, such as Flower, would be highly beneficial due to its robust focus on diverse aggregation algorithms and advanced privacy-enhancing techniques. 

The next step, therefore, is to establish a real, continuously growing network of Sites . Such a network should not only train individual models but also jointly refine cohorts, workflows, and models over the long term. Sites will only participate if the benefits outweigh the integration and operating costs. This includes funded local infrastructure, compensated data curation, access to jointly developed models, and clearly defined rights to and recognition for the 

resulting artifacts. This is explicitly done in the dAIbetes 12  and Microb-AI-ome 13  projects, 

within which the framework was jointly developed. In these two EU projects, over 800,000 patients from 10 participating hospitals in nine countries (EU, USA) are expected to take part in two separately hosted networks, demonstrating the on-premises deployability. FL-Net creates the technical foundation for developing a sustainable, interoperable, and institutionally controlled research infrastructure from individual feasibility studies. 

FL-Net implements the FAIR principles for federated research. Controlled DDQs support findability. Authorized local execution supports accessibility. Shared semantic and syntactic representations and API-standardized Tools support interoperability. Versioned queries, workflows, parameters, results, and Tools including Inference-Tools support reproducibility. 

# Methods 

# Data standard 

A shared data standard substantially reduces the cost of integrating heterogeneous 

Sites 28,29 . FL-Net is based on data standards that allow FL-Net to guarantee validated data at 

Sites with full access to the semantic and syntactic data description on the FL-Net Platform .FL-Net represents this standard as a tree with three coupled node types (Method Fig. 6A), hereby called Schema . Ontologies define the meaning of clinical concepts and their 

relationships, establishing the semantic level 30 . DataType-Nodes (NDT) define the possible 

values of a concept and the rules that validate them, establishing the syntactic level 38,39 . A 

Schema-Node (NS) then links an ontology to a NDT, defining the semantic and syntactic level of a variable. The NS are organized in a tree-structured Schema that specifies which elements belong together and which are expected for a given cohort, establishing the structural level. Figure 6 - Ontology-guided harmonization and ETL workflow in FL-Net: (A) Conceptual relationship between the three harmonization layers: (1) NO define the semantic level by providing a shared vocabulary of clinical concepts and their relationships. (2) NDT define the syntactic level, specifying permissible formats, units, encodings, value ranges, and validation rules. (3) NS link the semantic and syntactic levels by linking NO to a concrete NDT, defining the structural level. Together, these layers ensure that each Schema element is semantically interpretable and technically validatable across Sites . B) An example ETL workflow for converting a local Sites hospital data into the FL-Net target representation: (1) Raw data are extracted from local source systems. (2) Multiple local tables are merged into a single processing table. (3) Transformation functions standardize values, formats, timestamps, codes, and units. (4) Source columns are mapped to the corresponding target NS. Additional visit and timestamp information for the target NS from other columns may be mapped optionally as well. (5) The mapped values are validated against Schema-linked NDT rules and checked for patient-level completeness. (6) The validated values are then loaded into a local, standardized, long-format database. Each entry is stored alongside the NS, visit identifier, timestamp, and value. To avoid information loss with source data in the wide format, grouping information from the source data is also stored per entry (Supplementary S1). This procedure transforms heterogeneous local data into a common, Schema-constrained (semantic and syntactic validated) representation, enabling federated querying and learning. 

FL-Net is ontology-agnostic. While it is possible to use the UMLS Metathesaurus 40  as its 

ontology backbone, it is also possible to work entirely with custom ontologies. This is important because UMLS licensing can create barriers to redistribution and to conducting 

fully reproducible, openly shareable experiments 40 .Each Site in FL-Net can save its data in different cohorts. Each cohort follows a Schema .Each Schema may be compatible with other Schemas due to an overlap of NO or NDT. This overlap can occur within a single Site or across multiple Sites . The utilization of global ontology structures administered by the Platform facilitates the identification and integration of similar or related cohorts for training purposes, given the established structure. The 

Schema ensures that a Sites cohort is complete and consistent, meaning that the expected attributes are valid against their NDT and are actually present. As a result, the data standard does not become a prerequisite outside the system, but rather a technical component of the network itself. 

NO and NDT form the global structure, the Schema connects them into a common data standard in the form of a tree on which Site cohorts can be consistently built. This enables 

FL based on a shared, verifiable, and understandable dataset 29 .

# Data harmonization by extract-transfer-load 

FL-Net provides ETL functionality to harmonize and load the local data into a Site . During the ETL process the Site data is converted to fulfill the shared data standard (Fig. 3B). This is done via so-called connectors. A connector stores information on how raw data should be extracted, which transformations should be applied to which columns, and how the data is mapped post transformation to NS of a data standard. Both steps, transformation and extraction, can be done using built-in functionalities, or (certified) ETL-Tools from the FL-Net Platform can be used. Each transformation uses either a cell or a row as input, while the extraction uses complete files as input. Both extraction and transformation support Tool 

specific hyperparameters. In addition, this enables, for example, the existence of an SQL extraction Tool , which then does not require any input. External databases can therefore also be connected to FL-Net using a connector. Extraction tools can be launched with specific network access to enable remote data extraction via the ETL-Tool .

A connector stores information on extracted, transformed and final column names, the 

Schema it is created for, and mapping of final column names to NS. This allows error reporting in case a subsequent ETL run misses input or produces unexpected intermediary or final results. The connector also provides a mapping from local columns onto NS. As data is ingested, every value is checked against the linked NDT validation rules of its target NS. Values that violate the rule are rejected according to the rules and reported back to the user. 

Harmonized data is stored locally in a long entity-attribute-value (EAV) format, in which each row records a single observation for a patient, NS, time point, and original row identifier. The original row identifier can in later analysis be used to link previously connected information, such as a diagnosis and the type of diagnosis, ensuring no information loss due to the EAV format. This format is ideal for clinical data because it can accommodate longitudinal, heterogeneous, and sparse data, also incorporating the typical Patient-Visit-Variable 

hierarchy of Electronic Health Records (EHR) 41–43 . The flexibility of this format allows for new 

variables or repeated measurements to be added without altering the table structure. Institutions with different source data describing the same variables can therefore be loaded into the same common data standard, enabling follow-up data discovery and federated learning, without any required coding by the institutions. Data discovery query (DDQ) 

FL does not begin immediately with model development, but rather with the semantically and syntactically controlled selection of discovered patients and characteristics that is required for training. 

To this end, FL-Net proposes the use of an ontology-centric query language, an approach 

used in other contexts already 44,45 . A DDQ can be composed by a Researcher via the 

frontend. A DDQ is a list of DDQ items, where each item represents a condition (see S1). Each DDQ item references a globally available PO-DT. Multiple DDQ items can be combined into one DDQ. Local instances resolve these references to their respective Schema structure and compile standalone SQL queries against the local long-format data store. In this process, cohort-specific permissions are checked before results are returned, minimum patient count thresholds per cohort are enforced locally, and the reported counts are additionally rounded. Any DDQ is logged locally for auditing on affected patient-level. The system thus combines governance-based protection mechanisms with disclosure control, as discussed in research as a practical response to re-identification and membership inference 

risks 16,46 .

This DDQ allows ontology-based data discovery even over multiple different Schemas .Based on DDQ results, FL-Net allows researchers to define the set of PO-DT they want to use as variables in a follow-up FL. Researchers can only select PO-DT that are available in the 

Schemas found by their DDQ. 

# Training 

The learning framework combines containerized analysis Tools with a versioned 

Inference-Tools (Fig. 2). Workflows and Tools are managed as standalone Platform objects with defined input and output interfaces, hyperparameters, and version histories as proposed 

in PoSyMed 33 . Inference-Tools are not viewed as temporary results of individual experiments 

but can be treated as reusable research artifacts with documented provenance, access 

control, and publication status 33 .

After data discovery counts are inspected and deemed sufficient by the user, a project may be created based on the DDQ. First, a project contains a set of variables that can be selected from the available variables in the Schemas hit by the DDQ. Secondly, the project contains a workflow in the form of a Tool-DAG , which allows the flow of one Tool's output as 

another Tool's input 33 . Based on the project, the Researcher then sends an FL request to all 

connected Sites . All Sites receive the FL request and reevaluate the DDQ for all cohorts. If the result is not zero, the FL request will be saved and handled for approval by the 

Site-Owners . After approval, the Site responds to the FL request with the updated count, applying the same privacy measures as with the DDQ. The FL project run is only started once the project creator starts the run after enough data is approved by Sites . Each clinic exports the approved patients and selected features from its local EAV database into a container-mounted dataset (Method Fig. 7).Any requested features that are not available at a Site are added as null-filled columns in the case of a wide-format export, or are not added in the case of a long-format export. Any requested features that are not available at all Sites are dropped. The Tools validate the input, train locally, and exchange model weights through the FL-Net Controller and Relay Server . Aggregated weights are returned for subsequent rounds. Run states are synchronized with the global backend, and approved outputs are persisted after completion. Figure 7 - Training process in FL-Net: Accepted patient data are prepared and processed fully in locally running, containerized Tools , while execution states are synchronized through secure websocket (WSS). Only model weights are exchanged through the Controller and Relay Server ; raw patient data remain at each Site . After aggregation and workflow completion, model weights and metrics are stored in the Platform if participating Site-Owners agree. These weights can be used to build an Inference-Tool .

The FL-Tools required federated communication. This is solved using an adapted version of the FeatureCloud communication protocol which follows a star-shaped network 

architecture 18 . All Sites connect to a Relay Server which is responsible to relay all messages, 

doing so via custom message framing using the TCP protocol. FL algorithms encapsulated in Tools can send messages between Sites or communicate with the aggregator via the 

Relay Server . Similarly, the aggregator may broadcast to all Sites or only to specific Sites . To handle network instabilities, the Relay Server of FeatureCloud was extended with an in-memory message store for messages for destination clients not yet connected. The 

Controller of the Sites was extended with an outgoing message queue and an incoming message store that includes an automatic message ID system that automatically discards outdated messages. To build the Inference-Tools , the pipeline and Tool-Store proposed by 

PoSyMed were expanded 33 . If the final model has been approved by the participating Sites ,

it is verified and built by the Platform . This Inference-Tool can subsequently be used via the 

FL-Net Platform or it can be further customized or utilized using the FL workflow 33 .

# Security and privacy 

FL-Net addresses security and privacy at all relevant layers of the Platform . Although FL prevents the centralization of clinical data, it does not address the governance requirements 

of distributed research infrastructures 47,48 . FL-Net therefore addresses security and data 

privacy on a system level, spanning the local systems of participating Sites , their containerized execution environment, the network layer including FL communication, the application layer, the DDQ privacy, and the ML artifacts produced by Tool execution (Method Fig. 8). 

Figure 8 - Security Architecture and Secure Communication Channels in FL-Net: At the 

Platform level, user requests are terminated via NGINX and forwarded to the frontend, documentation, and the central APIs. A separate Keycloak (green) instance with its own PostgreSQL database handles authentication and single sign-on. Keycloak can be replaced with any OpenID Connect server that implements a role-based system. The Global Learning API, Data Modeler API, and Orchestration API access only their respective assigned databases. The Relay Server facilitates federated communication between the global infrastructure and local Sites , eliminating the need for direct connections between institutions. The Site replicates this principle with its own NGINX, Keycloak, orchestration, and learning infrastructure, as well as institutionally controlled databases. The local Controller receives the model weights. The Local Learning API coordinates execution of any 

Tool execution. Training and ETL-Tools run in a separate container environment with minimal permissions. By default, containers are allowed to access only the Controller and the Local Learning API. At the application level, users, services, and Sites are authenticated via separate Keycloak instances that use OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect. Role-based permissions and service accounts control direct user actions and delegated workflow executions. FL-Net aligns with the zero-trust principle, which states that every interaction must be authenticated and 

authorized, regardless of network location 49 .

All Platform requests are checked against the permissions of the specific Site cohort, and they may require approval by the Site-Owners . Automatic approvals can be set up for trusted global users. DDQs are executed locally and only return aggregated results. Minimum counts, suppression of small result sets, rounding, and DDQ limits reduce the risk of re-identification. 

FL-Net provides version-specific certification, provenance, and controlled release of model weights for all trainable Tools , supplementing all other protective mechanisms. Certifications apply to specific Tool versions and are supplemented by evaluations, usage statistics, and build and test results. Each version is also automatically scanned for viruses and vulnerabilities. All results are linked to the Tool versions used, participating Sites , release decisions, and execution metadata. 

Data processing and training applications run exclusively in isolated containers. By default, they can only communicate with the Controller and Local Learning API. External network access is disabled by default and must be explicitly configured and approved by the institution. This ensures that no data can leave the Site without authorization. However, some Tools may require external access, such as external database access. Therefore, access to the internet is possible, although it must be enabled by the Tool's developer and approved by the Site-Owners .

Communication between Sites is running via the Controller and relay infrastructure, eliminating the need for direct connections between clinics. Connections to the global server use TLS for security. The training weights exchanged between local clients and the aggregation component are encrypted using a public key that is shared by the participating 

Sites and the aggregator. This key is rotated for each run and Tool .

# Auditing 

Although keeping the raw patient data inside the secure hospital infrastructure reduces the 

risk of transmission, it does not override patient rights 50,51 . The rights of data protection, 

withdrawal of consent, and access by data subjects, as well as the right to be forgotten, 

remain fully effective in federated architectures 24,47,52–54 . FL-Net currently addresses this 

indirectly through cohort-based permissions, DDQ thresholds, local patient traceability, and 

auditable change logs 24,54 . To ensure traceability, every change of patient data on the local 

Site , any DDQ as well as any FL is logged and can be audited. Any interaction with patient data can therefore be audited on a per-patient level. Informed consent, automated revocation notification, and model-based unlearning, on the other hand, have not yet been established as first-class Platform features. Patient rights thus remain a distinct design dimension, the expansion of which must lead FL-Net from technical data minimization to normative robustness. Code availability 

The code for FL-Net is publicly available at the following GitHub organization: 

https://github.com/FedLearnNet . This organization contains the source code, documentation, 

and instructions for setting up and running FL-Net locally. The user and technical 

documentation is available at  https://federated-learning.net/documentation/ . The FL-Net 

software is free for academic and non-commercial use under the Apache 2.0 License 

(https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt ). 

# Data availability 

For the experiments we used two publicly accessible clinical datasets: the Diabetes 130-US 

Hospitals Datase 55  and MIMIC-IV 36,37,56 . The Diabetes dataset comprises 101,766 inpatient 

encounters collected from 130 US hospitals and integrated delivery networks between 1999 

and 2008 55 . MIMIC-IV provides de-identified electronic health record data from patients 

admitted to a large tertiary-care hospital, including demographic, diagnostic, laboratory, 

medication and admission information 36,37,56 . These datasets were selected because they are 

widely used, sufficiently heterogeneous, and accessible for reproducible benchmarking. The Diabetes 130-US Hospitals Dataset is openly available from the UCI Machine Learning Repository at: 

https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/296/diabetes+130-us+hospitals+for+years+1999-2008 .

# Funding 

The Microb-AI-ome project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon research and innovation programme under the Grant Agreement no. 101079777. Views and opinions expressed are, however, those of the authors only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union. The dAIbetes project is funded by the European Union under contract no. 101136305. The Hungarian partner is funded by the Hungarian National Research, Development, and Innovation Fund. Views and opinions expressed are, however, those of the authors only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or the Hungarian National Research, Development and Innovation Fund. Neither the European Union nor the Hungarian National Research, Development and Innovation Fund can be held responsible for them. The financial support by SBA Research (SBA-K1 NGC), a COMET Centre within the COMET – Competence Centers for Excellent Technologies Programme funded by BMIMI, BMWET, and the state of Vienna, managed by FFG, is gratefully acknowledged. 

# Acknowledgement 

The authors only used generative AI tools for minor language editing and stylistic refinement, such as checking grammar, wording, and clarity. Generative AI was not used to generate any of the scientific content, study design, analyses, results, or conclusions in this manuscript. All AI-assisted edits were critically reviewed, verified, and approved by the authors, who take full responsibility for the final content of the manuscript. All figures were 

created using Biorender 57 .References 

1. Teo, Z. L. et al. Federated machine learning in healthcare: A systematic review on 

clinical applications and technical architecture. Cell Rep. Med. 5, 101419 (2024). 

2. Brendan McMahan, H., Moore, E., Ramage, D., Hampson, S. & Agüera y Arcas, B. 

Communication-efficient learning of deep networks from decentralized data. arXiv 

[cs.LG] (2016) doi:10.48550/arXiv.1602.05629. 

3. Konečný, J., McMahan, H. B., Ramage, D. & Richtárik, P. Federated Optimization: 

Distributed machine learning for on-device intelligence. arXiv [cs.LG] (2016) 

doi:10.48550/arXiv.1610.02527. 

4. Haripriya, R., Khare, N. & Pandey, M. Privacy-preserving federated learning for 

collaborative medical data mining in multi-institutional settings. Sci. Rep. 15 , 12482 

(2025). 

5. Crowson, M. G. et al. A systematic review of federated learning applications for 

biomedical data. PLOS Digit. Health 1, e0000033 (2022). 

6. Zhang, F. et al. Building privacy-and-security-focused Federated Learning infrastructure 

for global multi-centre healthcare research. arXiv [cs.CR] (2026) 

doi:10.48550/arXiv.2603.10063. 

7. Li, M., Xu, P., Hu, J., Tang, Z. & Yang, G. From challenges and pitfalls to 

recommendations and opportunities: Implementing federated learning in healthcare. 

Medical image analysis 101 , 103497 (2024). 

8. Rieke, N. et al. The future of digital health with federated learning. NPJ Digit. Med. 3,

119 (2020). 

9. Sinaci, A. A. et al. Privacy-preserving federated machine learning on FAIR health data: 

A real-world application. Comput. Struct. Biotechnol. J. 24 , 136–145 (2024). 

10. Wilkinson, M. D. et al. The FAIR Guiding Principles for scientific data management and 

stewardship. Sci. Data 3, 160018 (2016). 

11. Zhang, F. et al. Recent methodological advances in federated learning for healthcare. 

Patterns (N. Y.) 5, 101006 (2024). 

12. dAIbetes. https://daibetes.eu/. 

13. Home - MICROB-AI-OME. https://microbaiome.net. 

14. Superior drug discovery models. Apheris https://www.apheris.com/. 

15. Santos, D. R. et al. A federated learning platform as a Service for advancing stroke 

management in European clinical centers. arXiv [cs.CY] (2024) 

doi:10.48550/arXiv.2410.13869. 

16. Avraam, D. et al. DataSHIELD: mitigating disclosure risk in a multi-site federated 

analysis platform. Bioinform. Adv. 5, vbaf046 (2025). 

17. Liu, Y., Fan, T., Chen, T., Xu, Q. & Yang, Q. FATE: An industrial grade platform for 

collaborative learning with data protection. J. Mach. Learn. Res. 22 , 226:1-226:6 (2021). 

18. Matschinske, J. et al. The FeatureCloud platform for federated learning in biomedicine: 

Unified approach. J. Med. Internet Res. 25 , e42621 (2023). 

19. Cremonesi, F. et al. Fed-BioMed: Open, transparent and trusted federated learning for 

real-world healthcare applications. in Studies in Computational Intelligence 19–41 

(Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham, 2025). 

20. Beutel, D. J. et al. Flower: A friendly federated learning research framework. arXiv 

[cs.LG] (2020) doi:10.48550/arXiv.2007.14390. 

21. Karargyris, A. et al. Federated benchmarking of medical artificial intelligence with 

MedPerf. Nat. Mach. Intell. 5, 799–810 (2023). 

22. Roth, H. R. et al. NVIDIA FLARE: Federated learning from simulation to real-world. 

arXiv [cs.LG] (2022) doi:10.48550/arXiv.2210.13291. 

23. Foley, P. et al. OpenFL: the open federated learning library. Phys. Med. Biol. 67 , 214001 

(2022). 

24. Beyan, O. et al. Distributed analytics on sensitive medical data: The Personal Health 

Train. Data Intell. 2, 96–107 (2020). 25. Ziller, A. et al. PySyft: A library for easy federated learning. in Federated Learning 

Systems 111–139 (Springer International Publishing, Cham, 2021). 

26. Rhino Federated Computing. https://www.rhinofcp.com/. 

27. Moncada-Torres, A., Martin, F., Sieswerda, M., Van Soest, J. & Geleijnse, G. 

VANTAGE6: an open source priVAcy preserviNg federaTed leArninG infrastructurE for 

Secure Insight eXchange. AMIA Annu. Symp. Proc. 2020 , 870–877 (2020). 

28. Peregrina, J. A., Ortiz, G. & Zirpins, C. A platform to integrate data governance in 

federated learning. in 2025 3rd International Conference on Federated Learning 

Technologies and Applications (FLTA) 1–6 (IEEE, 2025). 

29. Sarrat-González, D., Escribà-Montagut, X., Houghtaling, J. & González, J. R. dsOMOP: 

bridging OMOP CDM and DataSHIELD for secure federated analysis of standardized 

clinical data. Bioinformatics 41 , btaf286 (2025). 

30. Reich, C. et al. OHDSI Standardized Vocabularies-a large-scale centralized reference 

ontology for international data harmonization. J. Am. Med. Inform. Assoc. 31 , 583–590 

(2024). 

31. Unified Medical Language System (UMLS). U.S. National Library of Medicine 

https://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/index.html (2009). 

32. Jean-Baptiste, L., Mouazer, A., Sedki, K. & Tsopra, R. Translating the Observational 

Medical Outcomes Partnership - Common Data Model (OMOP-CDM) electronic health 

records to an OWL ontology. Stud. Health Technol. Inform. 290 , 76–80 (2022). 

33. Süwer, S. et al. Biomedical systems biology workflow orchestration and execution with 

PoSyMed. arXiv [cs.SE] (2026) doi:10.48550/arXiv.2604.20906. 

34. Lobentanzer, S. et al. Democratizing knowledge representation with BioCypher. Nat. 

Biotechnol. 41 , 1056–1059 (2023). 

35. Johnson, A. et al. MIMIC-IV. PhysioNet https://doi.org/10.13026/6MM1-EK67 (2023). 

36. Johnson, A. E. W. et al. MIMIC-IV, a freely accessible electronic health record dataset. 

Sci. Data 10 , 1 (2023). 

37. Pollard, T. et al. PhysioNet as a global platform for biomedical research. Nat. Health 

https://doi.org/10.1038/s44360-026-00096-z (2026) doi:10.1038/s44360-026-00096-z. 

38. Quiroz, J. C. et al. Extract, transform, load framework for the conversion of health 

databases to OMOP. PLoS One 17 , e0266911 (2022). 

39. Paris, N., Lamer, A. & Parrot, A. Transformation and evaluation of the MIMIC database 

in the OMOP common data model: Development and usability study (preprint). JMIR 

Preprints (2021) doi:10.2196/preprints.30970. 

40. Bodenreider, O. The Unified Medical Language System (UMLS): integrating biomedical 

terminology. Nucleic Acids Res. 32 , D267-70 (2004). 

41. Papez, V. et al. Transforming and evaluating the UK Biobank to the OMOP Common 

Data Model for COVID-19 research and beyond. J. Am. Med. Inform. Assoc. 30 ,

103–111 (2022). 

42. Kusejko, K. et al. Migrating a well-established longitudinal cohort database from Oracle 

SQL to research electronic data entry (REDCap): Data management research and 

design study. JMIR Form. Res. 7, e44567 (2023). 

43. Dinu, V. & Nadkarni, P. Guidelines for the effective use of entity-attribute-value modeling 

for biomedical databases. Int. J. Med. Inform. 76 , 769–779 (2007). 

44. Zhang, H. et al. Computable eligibility criteria through ontology-driven data access: A 

case study of Hepatitis C virus trials. AMIA Annu. Symp. Proc. 2018 , 1601–1610 (2018). 

45. Bienvenu, M., Cate, B. T., Lutz, C. & Wolter, F. Ontology-based data access: A study 

through disjunctive datalog, CSP, and MMSNP. arXiv [cs.DB] (2013) 

doi:10.48550/arXiv.1301.6479. 

46. Wyatt, M. C. et al. Federated Aggregate Cohort Estimator (FACE): an easy to deploy, 

vendor neutral, multi-institutional cohort query architecture. J. Biomed. Inform. 52 ,

65–71 (2014). 

47. Brauneck, A. et al. Federated machine learning, privacy-enhancing technologies, and 

data protection laws in medical research: Scoping review. J. Med. Internet Res. 25 ,

e41588 (2023). 48. Hallock, H. et al. Federated networks for distributed analysis of Health Data. Front. 

Public Health 9, 712569 (2021). 

49. Gupta, R. K. Federated Identity Management in Multi-Cloud Microservices: Protocols, 

Patterns, and Security Practices. European Journal of Computer Science and 

Information Technology 13 , 171 (2025). 

50. Ong, J. C. L. et al. Medical ethics of large language models in medicine. NEJM AI 1,

(2024). 

51. Ran, A. R. et al. Developing a privacy-preserving deep learning model for glaucoma 

detection: a multicentre study with federated learning. Br. J. Ophthalmol. 108 ,

1114–1123 (2024). 

52. Kostick-Quenet, K. M., Compagnucci, M. C., Aboy, M. & Minssen, T. Patient-centric 

federated learning: automating meaningful consent to health data sharing with smart 

contracts. J. Law Biosci. 12 , lsaf003 (2025). 

53. Deng, Z., Luo, L. & Chen, H. Enable the right to be forgotten with Federated Client 

Unlearning in medical imaging. arXiv [eess.IV] (2024) doi:10.48550/arXiv.2407.02356. 

54. Choudhury, A. et al. Colorectal cancer health and care quality indicators in a federated 

setting using the Personal Health Train. BMC Med. Inform. Decis. Mak. 24 , 121 (2024). 

55. Strack, B. et al. Impact of HbA1c measurement on hospital readmission rates: analysis 

of 70,000 clinical database patient records. Biomed Res. Int. 2014 , 781670 (2014). 

56. Johnson, A. et al. MIMIC-IV. PhysioNet https://doi.org/10.13026/KPB9-MT58 (2024). 

57. BioRender: Scientific Figure and Illustration Software. https://www.biorender.com/. Supplementary 1: ETL 

We divided the US-130 diabetes dataset into five distinct institutional subsets and exported the data using different conventions. These conventions included different variable names, units, coding systems, languages, markers for missing values, column orders, and temporal and structural representations. Each subset was integrated via the standard FL-Net workflow without any code changes. A declarative connector harmonized the subsets during import into a single, common global Schema managed by the Platform . This process used a small, reusable library of cell functions (e.g., recording individual values, converting units/duration, normalizing missing values, and normalizing spaces and case) and row functions (e.g., splitting or merging columns). In addition, we used the MIMIC-IV 2.2 dataset to harmonize it with this Schema as well in order to demonstrate that even two completely different structures can be harmonized. 

To evaluate this, we developed a common Schema that is used for all evaluations (Fig. S1.1, RE1). The Schema , which was created for US-130 and MIMIC-IV, specifies which data are collected during a single inpatient stay for a patient with diabetes and comprises fifty 

Schema-Nodes (NS). It should be noted that the MIMIC-IV and US-130 datasets have different Schemas , although their structure, DataType-Nodes (NDT), and Ontology-Nodes 

(NO) are identical. Due to the mapping process, some data from MIMIC-IV 2.2 was omitted, and only relevant data was mapped. 

Supplementary Figure S1.1: Target Schema: The Schema developed for US-130 and MIMIC-IV contains fifty variables that describe an inpatient stay for a patient with diabetes, grouped into seven clinical and administrative domains. Each variable is identified by the type of data it contains: CAT (categories), INT (integer), and STR (free text). The hourglass icon indicator specifies whether the variable is recorded once per patient or repeated for each hospital stay. 

Four of these NS describe the patient and are recorded only once (Table S1.1). The remaining forty-six are recorded at each admission, so that a patient who is admitted repeatedly is treated as a time series. Supplementary Table S1.1: Variables in the evaluation scheme: All fifty variables, grouped by the domain to which they belong. Variables with the same description are combined into a single row, and the twenty-three drug variables are listed in a single row, since each of them captures the same four-level dosage change for a different active ingredient formulation. Kind denotes the value type: CAT stands for a fixed set of categories, INT for an integer, and STR for free text. Values specify the permissible value range, if defined; the integer and free-text variables are not subject to such a restriction. 

Domain  Variables  Kind  Values 

Demographics  Race  CAT  Caucasian, AfricanAmerican, Hispanic, Asian, Other 

Gender  CAT  Female, Male 

Age  CAT  ten ‑year bands, [0-10) … [90-100) 

Weight  CAT  twenty ‑five ‑pound bands, [0-25) … >300 

Encounter  Encounter ID, Patient Number 

INT  identifiers linking stays to patients 

Admission Type, Admission Source, Discharge Disposition 

INT  integer codes; meanings not carried by the Schema 

Time in Hospital  INT  days from admission to discharge 

Payer Code, Medical Specialty 

STR  free text 

Clinical Counts  Num Lab Procedures, Num Procedures, Num Medications, Num Diagnoses 

INT  volume of care during the stay 

Num Outpatient, Num Emergency, Num Inpatient 

INT  contacts in the preceding year 

Diagnoses  Diag 1, Diag 2, Diag 3 

STR  ICD ‑9/10 codes in fixed positional slots 

Lab Results  Max Glu Serum  CAT  Norm, >200, >300, None if not measured 

A1C Result  CAT  Norm, >7, >8, None if not measured Domain Variables Kind Values 

Medication  16 single agents (Metformin, Insulin, Glipizide, …), 5 fixed ‑dose combinations, 2 fictitious 

CAT  dosage change over the stay: No, Steady, Up, Down 

Outcome  Change, Diabetes Med 

CAT  whether diabetes medication was altered / prescribed 

Readmitted  CAT  <30 days, >30 days, NO 

Thirty-two variables have a fixed set of categories, thirteen are integer values, and five are free-text fields. None of the variables are continuous: age, weight, and both lab results are already organized into predefined classes, so the A1C result is not a percentage but represents one of four states. 

Variables that measure the same thing share a single NDT instead of duplicating it. The four-level dosage scale is defined once and used by all twenty-three medication variables, ensuring they remain comparable to one another and allowing the scale to be adjusted for all of them collectively. 

# Per-Site heterogeneity and reversal evaluation 

The US-130 diabetes dataset was segmented into five distinct line-by-line disjoint subsets. Subset 1 maintains the conventional UCI layout, thereby serving as the reference institution. Subsequently, the data from Subsets 2 through 5 is converted into an institutional export format by a distinct Python script for each subset. The corresponding connector for each institution reverses this conversion during import solely through declarative configuration (i.e., no code), so that each institution is mapped to the same common global Schema 

(Supplementary Table S1). In order to accomplish this objective, cell- and row-based functions were utilized. 

The cell-based function transforms a single column value at a time. Each cell is configured with a target column set and parameters. 

For instance, the Scale Numeric function performs mathematical operations such as multiplication or division on a numeric value and a constant. Conversely, row functions possess the capacity to read and write an entire row, thereby enabling modifications to the column set and the generation or elimination of new rows. A case in point is the Split Column 

function, which facilitates the division of a consolidated column into multiple sections. This is the antithesis of a concatenation operation, in which fields are merged.   

> Supplementary Table S1.2: magnitude of the simulated heterogeneity. Each heterogeneous Site
> differs from its canonical subset in tens of thousands of individual cells, yet is reconciled by a connector of a handful of declarative steps.

Site  Delimiter  Columns renamed 

Cells changed vs canonical 

Connector transformer steps 

2 , 33  24.929  11 

3 ; 34  25.718  12 

4 , 35  26.495  13 

5 , 1 24.954  9

All Sites achieved a complete, Schema-compliant representation through configuration alone (Supplementary Table S1.3). Each Site successfully provided the complete set of fields of the common Schema , including all queried variables. Value validation based on Schema 

types and allowed value domains resulted in no rejections or type conversions. Furthermore, it becomes apparent that complex cohorts such as MIMIC-IV 2.2 can be imported. The reuse of NDT and NO is also evaluated, since although the Schemas of US-130 and MIMIC-IV have different NS, they share the same PO-DT.   

> Supplementary Table S1.3 - Harmonization outcomes across simulated clinical Sites . Data from five distinct institutional subsets were integrated using the FL-Net ETL pipeline. Columns denote the
> Site identifier, the specific style of local data export (S1), the number of columns in the raw source, the total number of records imported, the count of fields successfully mapped to the common Schema ,and the frequency of rejected or coerced data values.

Site  Dataset  Local export style  Source cols 

Patients imported 

Fields mapped 

Value rejections 

1 US-130  Canonical reference  50  778  50  0

2 US-130  Numeric coding systems (HL7 gender, race codebook, ordinal codes) 

48  779  50  0

3 US-130  Semicolon-delimited German export, length-of-stay in hours 

51  777  50  0

4 US-130  ISO-8601 duration, symbolic dosage codes, bracket-free ages 

48  777  50  0

5 US-130  Inconsistent casing/whitespace, 

51  780  50  0Site Dataset Local export style Source cols 

Patients imported 

Fields mapped 

Value rejections 

heterogeneous missing sentinels 

6 MIMIC-IV  Relational multi-table export (8 CSVs; long-format clinical events) 

73  299712  50  0

# Site 2: Numeric coding-system registry 

Mimics an institution that speaks in integer code systems and custom abbreviations. 

Columns are also renamed and reordered (Supplementary Table S1.3). FL-Net maps by name, so reordering needs no configuration.      

> Supplementary Table S1.3: Reconciliation of Site 2. This Site utilizes integer-based code systems and custom abbreviations. Transformation mappings demonstrate the use of the Generic Value Mapper to record standard categories, such as HL7 gender and severity grades, alongside row-level splitting of packed diagnostic codes into the shared global Schema .

Variable(s)  canonical → Site export 

gender→ sex  HL7 administrative gender: Male→1 , Female→2 

race→ ethnicity_code  custom codebook Caucasian→R1 … Other→R5 ,unknown→ R9 

A1Cresult →hba1c_class  severity grade None→0, Norm→1, >7→2, >8→3 

max_glu_serum →glu_serum_class  grade None→0 … >300→3 

readmitted →readmission_code  NO→0, >30→1, <30→2 

change ,diabetesMed  No→0 / Ch→1 , No→0 / Yes→1 

23 medication columns ( *_rx ) ordinal dosage No→0, Down→1, Steady→2, Up→3 

weight ,payer_code ,medical_specialt y

missing encoded as numeric -1 

diag_1 ,diag_2 ,diag_3 → dx_bundle  three ICD-9 codes packed as 250.83|276|255 

# Site 3: European clinical information system 

Mimics a non-English institution with German language, a different delimiter and unit (Table S1.4). Supplementary Table S1.4: Reconciliation of Site 3. This Site features a non-English institutional export using semicolon-delimited values and distinct units (e.g., hours for duration). Harmonization utilizes the Scale Numeric function for unit conversion and Generic Value Mapper for multilingual label remapping, alongside row-level operations to reconstruct age bands. 

Variable(s)  canonical → Site export 

file format  comma → semicolon-delimited 

gender →geschlecht  Female→weiblich , Male→maennlich 

race →herkunft  German categories ( Kaukasisch , …), unknown→ Unbekannt 

time_in_hospital →verweildauer_stu nden 

days → hours ( ×24 )

A1Cresult ,max_glu_serum  German labels ( Nicht gemessen , Ueber 8 , …) 

change ,diabetesMed ,readmitted  German labels ( Geaendert , Ja , Binnen 30 Tagen ,…) 

23 medication columns ( med_* ) German dosage ( Nein ,Reduziert ,Stabil ,Erhoeht )

weight ,payer_code ,medical_specialt y

missing encoded as k.A. 

age → alter_von ,alter_bis  age band [50-60) split on - into [50 , 60) 

# Site 4: Symbolic / temporal-encoding EHR 

Mimics an institution that uses typographic symbols, terse tokens and an ISO-8601 temporal encoding. Columns are renamed and reordered (Supplementary Table S1.5). 

Supplementary Table S1.5: Reconciliation of Site 4 This Site employs typographic symbols and ISO-8601 temporal encoding. The connector utilizes the Duration To Days function for temporal conversion and specific row-level operations to fuse encounter codes, alongside Generic Value Mapping for symbol-to-canonical value reconciliation. 

Variable(s)  canonical → Site export 

time_in_hospital →StayDuration  integer days → ISO-8601 duration ( 3→P3D )

23 medication columns ( Rx_* ) dosage symbols No→-, Steady→=, Up→+, Down→x 

age →AgeRange  bracket-free ranges [0-10)→0-9 , … 

gender →Sex  Female→F , Male→M 

race →RaceCode  upper codes CAUC/AFAM/HISP/ASIA/OTHR ,unknown→ UNK Variable(s) canonical → Site export 

A1Cresult ,max_glu_serum  terse tokens NA/WNL/H1/H2 , NA/WNL/G2/G3 

change ,diabetesMed ,readmitted  0/1 , false/true , N/L/E 

weight ,payer_code ,medical_special ty 

missing encoded as .

admission_type_id ,discharge_dispo sition_id ,admission_source_id →

EncounterCodes 

three codes fused as 1-1-7 

# Site 5: Unstructured text extract 

Mimics a spreadsheet dump: no code systems, just dirtiness, inconsistent casing, stray whitespace, and a missing-value sentinels (Supplementary Table S1.6). This stresses cleaning built-ins. 

The dataset exhibits characteristics reminiscent of a spreadsheet dump, characterized by the absence of code systems, the presence of dirtiness, inconsistent casing, stray whitespace, and a proliferation of missing-value sentinels (Supplementary Table S1.6). This underscores the importance of meticulous cleaning of medical data.    

> Supplementary Table S1.6: Reconciliation of Site 5. This Site mimics unformatted spreadsheet output with inconsistent casing, whitespace variability, and heterogeneous missing-value sentinels. The connector primarily exercises data cleaning built-ins, including Trim And Case, Regex Replace, and Normalize Missing, to align the dataset with the canonical structure.

Variable(s)  canonical → Site export 

gender , A1Cresult , max_glu_serum ,

change , diabetesMed , 23 meds 

lower-cased and whitespace-padded ( Steady→" steady " )

readmitted  comparators spaced out ( <30 → " < 30 " )

race  whitespace-padded; missing as NULL /N/A 

weight ,payer_code ,medical_specialty  distinct sentinels -99 , NULL , unknown 

age → age_low ,age_high  age band split on -

# Site 6: MIMIC-IV 

The connector for the MIMIC-IV 2.2 dataset executes the following 51 transformers in numerical order (Supplementary Table S1.7). Patient-level functions place encounter-derived values on the admission row identified by hadm_id ; cell functions then record or bin those values in place. Steps 26-48 are separate configured transformers, one for each medication NS, even though they use the same reusable dosage-trend function. Supplementary Table S1.7: Complete connector transformation sequence. Every configured transformer is listed separately with its operation and target. 

Step  Transformer and target  Explanation 

1 Patient Value Aggregate -Patient Number 

Copies the first subject_id for each admissions::hadm_id to patient_nbr and writes it on the matching admission row, giving every visit the Schema's patient-number field. 

2 Generic Value Mapper -Gender 

Maps patients.gender in place from M/F to the 

Schema categories Male/Female. 

3 Generic Value Mapper -Race 

Collapses 33 MIMIC race labels into the five 

Schema categories Caucasian, AfricanAmerican, Hispanic, Asian, and Other; the reduction is lossy but makes the cohorts comparable. 

4 Numeric Range Group Mapper - Age 

Bins continuous anchor_age into the Schema's 

ten-year age bands from [0-10) through [90-100). 

5 Patient Value Aggregate -Weight 

Finds OMR rows whose result_name is Weight (Lbs), selects the latest result_value by chartdate for each patient, and writes one weight_lbs value to the patient anchor row. 

6 Numeric Range Group Mapper - Weight 

Bins weight_lbs into 25-pound target bands from [0-25) through [275-300), with values above the configured maximum represented as >300. 

7 Generic Value Mapper -Admission Type 

Maps MIMIC admission_type labels to the target integer admission-type codes, including emergency, urgent, elective, and observation classes. 

8 Generic Value Mapper -Admission Source 

Maps admission_location labels to target admission-source codes, including referrals, transfers, emergency-room, self-referral, and 

procedure-Site sources. 

9 Generic Value Mapper -Discharge Disposition 

Maps discharge_location labels to target discharge-disposition codes, including home, facility, home-health, death, hospice, rehabilitation, and long-term care. 

10  Date Difference - Time in Hospital 

Subtracts admittime from dischtime, rounds half-up to whole days, and writes time_in_hospital for the admission. Step Transformer and target Explanation 

11  Patient Value Aggregate -Num Lab Procedures 

Counts labevents rows within each labevents::hadm_id and writes num_lab_procedures to the corresponding admission. This runs before step 21 removes irrelevant lab rows. 

12  Patient Value Aggregate -Num Procedures 

Counts procedures_icd::icd_code rows per hadm_id and writes num_procedures to the matching admission. 

13  Patient Value Aggregate -Num Medications 

Counts distinct prescriptions.drug names per hadm_id and writes num_medications to the matching admission. 

14  Patient Value Aggregate -Number Diagnoses 

Counts diagnoses_icd::icd_code rows per hadm_id and writes number_diagnoses to the matching admission. 

15  Patient Prior Event Count -Number Outpatient 

Counts earlier admissions in the preceding 365 days whose admission_type is AMBULATORY OBSERVATION, DIRECT OBSERVATION, or OBSERVATION ADMIT; writes the result as number_outpatient. 

16  Patient Prior Event Count -Number Emergency 

Counts earlier admissions in the preceding 365 days whose admission_type is EW EMER., DIRECT EMER., EU OBSERVATION, or URGENT; writes number_emergency. 

17  Patient Prior Event Count -Number Inpatient 

Counts all earlier admissions for the patient within the preceding 365 days and writes number_inpatient. 

18  Patient Value Aggregate -Diag 1 

Selects the first diagnosis code with diagnoses_icd::seq_num = 1 in each hadm_id and writes it to diag_1. 

19  Patient Value Aggregate -Diag 2 

Selects the first diagnosis code with diagnoses_icd::seq_num = 2 in each hadm_id and writes it to diag_2. 

20  Patient Value Aggregate -Diag 3 

Selects the first diagnosis code with diagnoses_icd::seq_num = 3 in each hadm_id and writes it to diag_3. 

21  Filter Rows By Value - row set 

Keeps labevents rows only when itemid is 50852, 50931, or 50809, while retaining rows Step Transformer and target Explanation 

from other tables that have no labevents::itemid. This reduces the event stream before downstream steps. 

22  Patient Value Aggregate -A1C Result 

For each admission, takes the maximum labevents::valuenum for itemid 50852 (hemoglobin A1c) and writes the numeric intermediate a1c_result. 

23  Numeric Threshold Class -A1C Result 

Converts a1c_result to target categories: values below 7 become Norm, values from 7 to below 8 become >7, values at least 8 become >8, and no measurement becomes None. 

24  Patient Value Aggregate -Max Glu Serum 

For each admission, takes the maximum labevents::valuenum across itemids 50931 and 50809 (glucose) and writes the numeric intermediate max_glu_serum. 

25  Numeric Threshold Class -Max Glu Serum 

Converts max_glu_serum to target categories: values below 200 become Norm, values from 200 to below 300 become >200, values at least 300 become >300, and no measurement becomes None. 

26  Patient Dosage Trend -Metformin 

Matches metformin, glucophage, fortamet, riomet, glumetza, compares first and last dose, writes Metformin as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

27  Patient Dosage Trend -Repaglinide 

Matches repaglinide, prandin, compares first and last dose, writes Repaglinide as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

28  Patient Dosage Trend -Nateglinide 

Matches nateglinide, starlix, compares first and last dose, writes Nateglinide as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

29  Patient Dosage Trend -Chlorpropamide 

Matches chlorpropamide, diabinese, compares first and last dose, writes Chlorpropamide as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

30  Patient Dosage Trend -Glimepiride 

Matches glimepiride, amaryl, compares first and last dose, writes Glimepiride as No, Steady, Up, or Down. Step Transformer and target Explanation 

31  Patient Dosage Trend -Acetohexamide 

Matches acetohexamide, dymelor, compares first and last dose, writes Acetohexamide as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

32  Patient Dosage Trend -Glipizide 

Matches glipizide, glucotrol, compares first and last dose, writes Glipizide as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

33  Patient Dosage Trend -Glyburide 

Matches glyburide, glibenclamide, diabeta, micronase, glynase, compares first and last dose, writes Glyburide as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

34  Patient Dosage Trend -Tolbutamide 

Matches tolbutamide, orinase, compares first and last dose, writes Tolbutamide as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

35  Patient Dosage Trend -Pioglitazone 

Matches pioglitazone, actos, compares first and last dose, writes Pioglitazone as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

36  Patient Dosage Trend -Rosiglitazone 

Matches rosiglitazone, avandia, compares first and last dose, writes Rosiglitazone as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

37  Patient Dosage Trend -Acarbose 

Matches acarbose, precose, compares first and last dose, writes Acarbose as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

38  Patient Dosage Trend -Miglitol 

Matches miglitol, glyset, compares first and last dose, writes Miglitol as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

39  Patient Dosage Trend -Troglitazone 

Matches troglitazone, rezulin, compares first and last dose, writes Troglitazone as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

40  Patient Dosage Trend -Tolazamide 

Matches tolazamide, tolinase, compares first and last dose, writes Tolazamide as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

41  Patient Dosage Trend -Examide 

Matches examide, compares first and last dose, writes Examide as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

42  Patient Dosage Trend -Citoglipton 

Matches citoglipton, compares first and last dose, writes Citoglipton as No, Steady, Up, or Down. Step Transformer and target Explanation 

43  Patient Dosage Trend -Insulin 

Matches insulin, humalog, novolog, lantus, levemir, humulin, novolin, glargine, lispro, aspart, detemir, degludec, glulisine, toujeo, tresiba, compares first and last dose, writes Insulin as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

44  Patient Dosage Trend -Glyburide-Metformin 

Matches glucovance, glyburide-metformin, compares first and last dose, writes Glyburide-Metformin as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

45  Patient Dosage Trend -Glipizide-Metformin 

Matches metaglip, glipizide-metformin, compares first and last dose, writes Glipizide-Metformin as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

46  Patient Dosage Trend -Glimepiride-Pioglitazone 

Matches duetact, glimepiride-pioglitazone, compares first and last dose, writes Glimepiride-Pioglitazone as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

47  Patient Dosage Trend -Metformin-Rosiglitazone 

Matches avandamet, metformin-rosiglitazone, compares first and last dose, writes Metformin-Rosiglitazone as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

48  Patient Dosage Trend -Metformin-Pioglitazone 

Matches actoplus, metformin-pioglitazone, compares first and last dose, writes Metformin-Pioglitazone as No, Steady, Up, or Down. 

49  Column Set Indicator -Change 

Checks all 23 medication outputs; if any is Up or Down, writes med_change = Ch, otherwise writes No. 

50  Column Set Indicator -Diabetes Med 

Checks all 23 medication outputs; if any is not No, writes diabetes_med = Yes, otherwise writes No. 

51  Readmission Interval Class - Readmitted 

Orders admissions within each patient and classifies the interval after discharge as readmitted <30, >30, or NO when there is no later admission. Supplementary 2: Data Discovery Query and disclosure control 

A DDQ can be composed by a Researcher via the frontend. A DDQ is a list of DDQ items, where each item represents a condition (Supplementary Fig. S12.1A). 

Supplementary Figure S2.1: DDQ Structure: A) FL-Net expresses DDQs independently of 

Schemas through available combinations of NO and NDT identifiers. A DDQ consists of one or more DDQ items that are combined by logical AND. Each DDQ item targets a specific PO-DT and contains one or more operator–value conditions defined by the supported DDQ vocabulary. B) Example serialized DDQ illustrates the Schema for a numerical constraint (age > 18) and a concept-presence constraint (patient has diabetes). Because a DDQ addresses shared semantic NO and NDT definitions rather than cohort-specific NS, the same DDQ can be evaluated across heterogeneous Schemas that resolve to the corresponding PO-DT. 

Each DDQ item contains the globally available OntologyId (The id of the specific NO) and 

DataTypeId (the id of the specific NDT). Furthermore, each item contains an operator and a value. The operators are <, <=, >, >=, =, !=, EXISTS, NOT EXISTS, CONTAINS, STARTS WITH, ENDS WITH and REGEX. The system limits the operators depending on the NDT, e.g. REGEX is not available for a numerical NDT. The values are also limited based on the NDT, e.g. for a categorical NDT the value selection is a drop-down of the allowed categories. Local 

Sites resolve the global references to their respective Schema structure and compile stand-alone patient id count SQL queries against the local EAV data store for any cohort that contains all PO-DT from the DDQ. A simple example DDQ would be the NO age, the NDT integer between 0 and 120, the operator >, and the value 18 to only include adults in data discovery (Supplementary Fig. S2.1B). 

In this process, cohort-specific permissions are checked before running any local DDQ as well as before results are returned. These permissions may be specific to a Platform user based on the user id sent by the Platform with the DDQ, or they can be set for any Platform 

user. Cohorts are only queried if the Platform user is permitted and if the cohort-specific DDQ cooldown since the last answered DDQ has passed. Resulting counts are further modified. Where minimum patient count thresholds per cohort are enforced locally, the count results of multiple cohorts are summed up and the reported counts are additionally rounded. Any DDQ and affected patients are logged locally for auditing. 

# S2.1 Queries and local execution (RE4) 

A DDQ is issued from the global Platform as an ordered list of DDQ items. Each item targets one ontology concept and one or more DataType. The ontology identifier serves as the concept's global reference (e.g. C0034510 (Race) or C0600032 (Readmitted)). Critically, the DDQ contains no SQL and no Site-specific Schema information, the DDQ is sent to all Sites 

and the instruction set is identical for all Sites .

Each participating Site compiles the DDQ locally and deterministically against its harmonized data store. This store is structured as a long-format, EAV table. 

For each DDQ item, the Site executes a three-step resolution: 

1. Map: Resolve the OntologyId to local NS via the local mapping. Detect the NS with the requested NDT and reject the DDQ if the requested combination is not available. 

2. Cast: Identify the appropriate value column based on the NDT (e.g., CATEGORICAL or STRING map to value_string; INT maps to value_int). 

3. Emit: Generate a” SELECT DISTINCT patient_id” statement for each resolved PO-DT. 

PO-DT corresponding to the same NO are combined using UNION operations, while distinct items in the DDQ list are combined using INTERSECT. This ensures that the final result counts only the distinct patients satisfying all criteria. 

Example. A DDQ list targeting the ontology C0034510 (Race) equals the value "Caucasian" (C0034510) of the Datatype Race(Snomed) AND the ontology “Female” (C4019318) equals the value true of the Datatype generic bool compiles locally to: SELECT DISTINCT patient_id FROM (SELECT DISTINCT patient_id FROM patient_data WHERE schema_node_id = <Race_Schemanode_id> and value_string = ‘Caucasian’) INTERSECT (SELECT DISTINCT patient_id FROM patient_data WHERE schema_node_id = <Gender_Female_id> and value_bool = true). 

Similarly, a numeric DDQ item requesting the ontology "length of stay" (C0420382) with the operator > 7 on the NDT days compiles to a filter where SchemaNodeId = <los_node> and value_int > 7. Because only Site-specific variables are resolved deterministically from the global ontology identifier, identical DDQ inputs reliably yield identical logical cohorts across all Sites , fulfilling the semantic DDQ requirement (RE4). 

# S2.2 Disclosure-control policy (RE2) 

Before any count is returned, each Site applies, in order: 

1. Access control: The requesting identity must hold a cohort-scoped permission with DDQ access; non-permitted cohorts are not queried. 

2. Timing control: Each DDQ specifies how much time must pass between queries (DDQ retry time). If a DDQ was executed on the cohort and another DDQ is requested before this time has passed, the cohort is excluded from this subsequent DDQ. 

3. Per-cohort minimum-sample threshold: A cohort contributes only if the number of matching patients ncohort is at least the cohort's configured sample threshold k.

4. Rounding: The total count n over all queried cohorts is rounded up to one order of magnitude below its own. 

5. Traceability: The matching patient ids and further meta-information, such as the querying user, the time of the DDQ, and the DDQ itself, are recorded locally (never transmitted). This ensures that an approved downstream run can be authorized against exactly this cohort. Furthermore, this is required for auditing purposes. 

The released, rounded count is the only quantity that leaves the clinic. 

Rounding/suppression examples (default k = 100): 

raw count n  released  note 

47  0 < k (e.g. 100) → suppressed 

123  130  round up to nearest 10 

1,234  1,300  round up to nearest 100 

20,148  21,000  round up to nearest 1,000 

640,148  641,000  round up to nearest 10,000 

This is the standard statistical disclosure control pattern (small count suppression and rounded released counts). The thresholds are Site specific settings and are reported here so that the privacy-utility behavior is fully specified and reproducible. We reuse the identical rounding when reporting discovered patient sizes as metrics, ensuring that no exact count ever leaves a Site .

# S2.3 Evaluation queries 

We evaluated DDQ and disclosure control with 13 predefined DDQs. Each DDQ was sent from the global FL-Net Platform to all 130 simulated clinics of the UCI Diabetes 130-US Hospitals dataset (Supplementary S1). Queries were expressed through ontology-based predicates, executed locally on distinct patient identifiers, and released only after the local disclosure-control policy had been applied. All Sites set the same DDQ retry time and queries were executed so that the DDQ retry time passed. 

all_female 

Question: How many distinct patients are female? Predicate: Gender = Female. 

race_caucasian 

Question: How many distinct patients are Caucasian? Predicate: Race = Caucasian. a1c_not_measured 

Question: How many distinct patients have no measured A1C result? Predicate: A1C result = None. 

on_diabetes_meds 

Question: How many distinct patients received diabetes medication? Predicate: DiabetesMed = Yes. 

metformin_steady 

Question: How many distinct patients were on steady metformin? Predicate: Metformin = Steady. 

insulin_steady 

Question: How many distinct patients were on steady insulin? Predicate: Insulin = Steady. 

long_stay 

Question: How many distinct patients stayed in hospital for more than seven days? Predicate: Time in Hospital > 7. 

readmit_30 

Question: How many distinct patients were readmitted within 30 days? Predicate: Readmitted = <30. 

caucasian_female 

Question: How many distinct patients are both Caucasian and female? Predicate: Race = Caucasian AND Gender = Female. 

a1c_high_metformin_up 

Question: How many distinct patients had A1C >8 and an increased metformin dose? Predicate: A1C result = >8 AND Metformin = Up. 

race_asian 

Question: How many distinct patients are Asian? Predicate: Race = Asian. 

aa_insulin_up 

Question: How many distinct African American patients had an increased insulin dose? Predicate: Race = AfricanAmerican AND Insulin = Up. 

asian_male_a1c8 

Question: How many distinct Asian male patients had A1C >8? Predicate: Race = Asian AND Gender = Male AND A1C result = >8. 

# S2.4 Query Results 

Query reproducibility and disclosure control were evaluated across all Sites and predefined DDQs (Supplementary Tables S2.1–S2.2). Repeated execution produced identical released counts across all three runs, demonstrating deterministic query behavior. At the same time, disclosure controls modified the returned results where required: discovered patients counts were rounded before release, whereas cohorts below the configured disclosure threshold were suppressed entirely. Together, these results show that FL-Net provides reproducible DDQs while consistently enforcing privacy-preserving release rules at the local Sites .       

> Supplementary Table S2.1 Reproducibility: For each Site × logical DDQ: the released count of repeat 1, 2, and 3, and whether all three are identical (expected: yes for every row). For Sites 1–3, the US-130 dataset was used, while Site 4 used MIMIC-IV 2.2. All data were imported as described in S1. The global total would therefore be the sum of all four Sites combined.

Site  DDQ Key  Released r1 

Released r2 

Released r3 

Identical 

1 all_female  410  410  410  Yes 

1 race_caucasian  580  580  580  Yes 

1 a1c_not_measured  640  640  640  Yes 

1 on_diabetes_meds  580  580  580  Yes 

1 metformin_steady  150  150  150  Yes 

1 insulin_steady  220  220  220  Yes 

1 long_stay  130  130  130  Yes 

1 readmit_30  0 0 0 Yes 

1 caucasian_female  290  290  290  Yes 

1 a1c_high_metformi n_up 

0 0 0 Yes 

1 race_asian  0 0 0 Yes 

1 aa_insulin_up  0 0 0 Yes 

1 asian_male_a1c8  0 0 0 Yes 

2 all_female  420  420  420  Yes 

2 race_caucasian  590  590  590  Yes 

2 a1c_not_measured  640  640  640  Yes 

2 on_diabetes_meds  600  600  600  Yes 

2 metformin_steady  150  150  150  Yes 

2 insulin_steady  250  250  250  Yes 

2 long_stay  130  130  130  Yes 2 readmit_30  0 0 0 Yes 

2 caucasian_female  310  310  310  Yes 

2 a1c_high_metformi n_up 

0 0 0 Yes 

2 race_asian  0 0 0 Yes 

2 aa_insulin_up  0 0 0 Yes 

2 asian_male_a1c8  0 0 0 Yes 

3 all_female  390  390  390  Yes 

3 race_caucasian  570  570  570  Yes 

3 a1c_not_measured  640  640  640  Yes 

3 on_diabetes_meds  590  590  590  Yes 

3 metformin_steady  140  140  140  Yes 

3 insulin_steady  250  250  250  Yes 

3 long_stay  120  120  120  Yes 

3 readmit_30  0 0 0 Yes 

3 caucasian_female  280  280  280  Yes 

3 a1c_high_metformi n_up 

0 0 0 Yes 

3 race_asian  0 0 0 Yes 

3 aa_insulin_up  0 0 0 Yes 

3 asian_male_a1c8  0 0 0 Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  all_female  160000  160000  160000  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  race_caucasian  130000  130000  130000  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  a1c_not_measured  180000  180000  180000  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  on_diabetes_meds  57000  57000  57000  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  metformin_steady  7800  7800  7800  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  insulin_steady  42000  42000  42000  Yes 4 (MIMIC-IV)  long_stay  44000  44000  44000  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  readmit_30  41000  41000  41000  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  caucasian_female  64000  64000  64000  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  a1c_high_metformi n_up 

250  250  250  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  race_asian  7700  7700  7700  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  aa_insulin_up  2500  2500  2500  Yes 

4 (MIMIC-IV)  asian_male_a1c8  0 0 0 Yes    

> Supplementary Table S2.2 Disclosure control:. For each Site × logical DDQ: raw vs. released count, the rounding delta, and whether the discovered patient count was suppressed.

Site  DDQ Key  Raw  Released  Δ (Released − Raw) 

Suppressed 

1 all_female  401  410  9 No 

1 race_caucasian  577  580  3 No 

1 a1c_not_measured  637  640  3 No 

1 on_diabetes_meds  580  580  0 No 

1 metformin_steady  150  150  0 No 

1 insulin_steady  218  220  2 No 

1 long_stay  124  130  6 No 

1 readmit_30  87  0 -87  Yes 

1 caucasian_female  288  290  2 No 

1 a1c_high_metformi n_up 

2 0 -2  Yes 

1 race_asian  2 0 -2  Yes 

1 aa_insulin_up  10  0 -10  Yes 

1 asian_male_a1c8  0 0 0 No 

2 all_female  415  420  5 No 

2 race_caucasian  582  590  8 No 2 a1c_not_measured  636  640  4 No 

2 on_diabetes_meds  600  600  0 No 

2 metformin_steady  149  150  1 No 

2 insulin_steady  249  250  1 No 

2 long_stay  130  130  0 No 

2 readmit_30  95  0 -95  Yes 

2 caucasian_female  304  310  6 No 

2 a1c_high_metformi n_up 

2 0 -2  Yes 

2 race_asian  4 0 -4  Yes 

2 aa_insulin_up  18  0 -18  Yes 

2 asian_male_a1c8  0 0 0 No 

3 all_female  389  390  1 No 

3 race_caucasian  561  570  9 No 

3 a1c_not_measured  640  640  0 No 

3 on_diabetes_meds  590  590  0 No 

3 metformin_steady  138  140  2 No 

3 insulin_steady  242  250  8 No 

3 long_stay  112  120  8 No 

3 readmit_30  86  0 -86  Yes 

3 caucasian_female  278  280  2 No 

3 a1c_high_metformi n_up 

1 0 -1  Yes 

3 race_asian  7 0 -7  Yes 

3 aa_insulin_up  15  0 -15  Yes 

3 asian_male_a1c8  0 0 0 No Reporting raw and released side-by-side renders the privacy–utility trade-off of the DDQ layer transparent: every released count is ≥ its raw value (conservative upward rounding) or 0 (suppression), and no released count discloses an exact patient number. 

# Supplementary 3: Federated neural-network training for 30-day hospital readmission 

The object of this experiment was to evaluate whether federated learning with FL-Net could improve readmission prediction within 30 days compared to institutional training while equaling the performance of a centralized, pooled reference model. 

All experiments used the Diabetes 130-US Hospitals Dataset 1. This dataset comprises 

101,766 inpatient encounters recorded at 130 US hospitals and integrated delivery networks 

between 1999 and 2008 1. Their institutional and temporal structure also makes them suitable 

for simulating distributed clinical environments under controlled conditions. Importantly, the “130” in the Diabetes dataset refers to the hospitals contributing to the original data collection rather than the number of federation Sites used in our experiments, which varied independently across 3, 5, 10, 25, 33 and 50 Sites . The prediction target is hospital readmission within 30 days of discharge. This is a binary classification task in which the three-level readmission field in the dataset is mapped to a positive class for readmission in 

less than 30 days and a negative class for readmission after 30 days 1. We chose this 

dataset for several reasons: it is public, widely used, and naturally compatible with FL as it is originally gathered from distributed sources, which allows others to reproduce the full pipeline without restricted-access data. First, isolated training at a single Site was used as the baseline. In this condition, each participating Site trained a model using only its own data and was evaluated using a validation split held out from the same Site . This corresponds to the status quo, in which institutions cannot benefit from the observations of other centers. Second, federated FL-Net training was used as a privacy-compliant, collaborative condition. In this condition, each institution trained locally and exchanged only NN parameters with the federation backend. The institutions also received an aggregated global model for the next round. Third, a centralized, pooled training was used as the upper reference. In this condition, all training datasets were combined into a single, centralized dataset. A single model was then trained and evaluated using the held-out, unknown evaluation dataset. Therefore, the federated condition was evaluated based on its improvement over the isolated lower reference and its proximity to the pooled upper reference. 

To evaluate FL-Net under controlled yet realistic conditions, we emulated a multi-institution 

federation on a single server with a Docker-in-Docker deployment  2. Each container hosts a 

complete FL-Net Site environment. Each independent Site had its own local database, identity service, execution runtime, and connects to a common FL-Net Platform . Each Site 

ran as an isolated environment with its own data partition. This reproduced the 

one-connection-per-Site topology of a real deployment while allowing the entire federation to be instantiated, torn down, and re-run deterministically from a single host. The Platform 

recorded workflow states, query histories, aggregation metadata, hyperparameters, and artifact versions across all experiments so that any run can be reconstructed in full from its stored provenance. All experiments were performed on a Linux server equipped with one AMD EPYC 7401P 24-core processor with simultaneous multithreading enabled, providing 48 logical CPUs, and 188.8 GiB RAM. The system ran Ubuntu 24.04.4 LTS with Linux kernel 6.8.0-110-generic, Docker Engine 29.4.2, Docker Compose v5.1.3, and the overlay2 storage driver. 

# S3.1 Data preparation and partitioning 

The same harmonization and preprocessing pipeline was used for all conditions. First, the raw US-130 datasets were converted into the broad Schema used by the Tool .

Columns for identification, redundant age fields, missing columns, and columns with low information content were excluded from the modeling. Age classes were mapped to numerical means. Diagnosis codes were grouped into broad clinical categories. The medication columns were binarized to indicate whether a medication was prescribed or changed. The remaining categorical variables were one-hot encoded and the remaining numeric missing values were imputed using the median of the respective column. 

Training and evaluation partitions were defined prior to model fitting. For federated experiments, the training pool was split into Site-specific client datasets. Each client then performed a stratified training/validation split with a 0.2 validation proportion and a random seed of 42. For centralized evaluation, the training dataset was a filtered dataset corresponding to a specific experiment and number of clinics. 

All centralized runs were evaluated using the same held-out clinics corresponding to clinics 120–130. 

# S3.2 Trainable Tool 

The model was implemented as an MLPClassifier from the scikit-learn library. This architecture was chosen because it utilizes a simple, well-established NN for processing. The standard architecture consists of two hidden layers with twelve and eight neurons, respectively. These layers use the ReLU activation function, while the output layer is based on binary logistic classification. Training was performed using the Adam optimizer with a learning rate of 0.001, an L2 regularization strength of 0.0001, a batch size of 10, and a fixed initialization value of 42 (random seed). In the centralized approach, training was always performed with 10 iterations. In the federated approach, training was also performed with 10 federation rounds and one local epoch per round. Consequently, both the centralized and federated training had the same number of iterations. 

The federated model was optimized through FedAvg 3.

# S3.3 Results 

Across an increasing number of clients, federated training has been shown to enhance client-level AUROC and AUPRC when compared to isolated local models (Supplementary Fig. S3.1). The most substantial gains were observed in the range of 25 to 50 clients. The per-client boxplots (Supplementary S.3.3.1-S3.3.5) demonstrate that the benefit was not uniform, with some clients experiencing substantial gains, while others exhibited minimal change or occasional degradation. The Brier score demonstrated a distinct pattern compared to discrimination metrics. Typically, it exhibited an adverse response during client-level validation but a favorable one in the context of unseen data relative to central training. This approach facilitates the discrete reporting of discrimination and calibration outcomes. 

Supplementary Figure S3.1 - Federated model evaluation: Federated learning improves discrimination among participating clients compared with isolated local training. Unseen-clinic performance is compared against a fair central baseline trained on the same first-N client data regime. a) Per-client AUROC on each participating clinic’s held-out 20% validation split. The central model is trained using the same first N training Sites as the federation, with each clinic split into an 80/20 training/validation set, as in the FL-Tool . The boxes show the distribution across the N participating clinics: local clinic-only models, the federated model evaluated per clinic, and the fair central model evaluated per clinic. For the central condition, each clinic value is averaged across three central runs before plotting. b) Per-client AUPRC on the same participating-client validation splits, plotted with the same box-and-mean-marker convention as panel a). c) AUROC on the fixed unseen-clinic evaluation set (last 30 clinics) for the final federated and central models. d) AUPRC on the same unseen-clinic evaluation set, using the same three-run/model comparison as panel c). The unseen evaluation set contained 20,351 encounters with a readmission prevalence of 11.2%. 

Federated scalability was assessed across federation sizes ranging from 3 to 50 clients over ten training rounds and three repeated runs (Supplementary Fig. S3.2). Although absolute round duration increased with the number of participating clients, the amortized runtime per client decreased and remained low at larger federation sizes. Communication accounted for a relatively stable fraction of the total round time, while round-level measurements showed consistent behavior across repetitions and training rounds. Together, these results indicate that FL-Net scales to larger federations without a proportional increase in per-client execution cost. 

Supplementary Figure S3.2 - Federated scalability evaluation: The figure summarizes the runtime and communication characteristics of the federated NN across different federation sizes. The values shown are averages across three repetitions and ten federated training rounds per setting. A) shows the absolute average round duration. B) shows the same round duration normalized per participating client. C) quantifies the proportion of communication relative to the total round duration. D) shows the mean round duration across the ten training rounds for each federation size. The number of clients examined were 3, 5, 10, 25, 33, 40, and 50. S3.3.1 - 3. Site's Evaluation 

Supplementary Figure S3.3 - 3 Site’s Evaluation: Per-client validation performance for the 3-client federation. Boxplots compare isolated local models with the federated/global model for AUROC, AUPRC and Brier score across available runs. Federated training improved mean AUROC but reduced AUPRC and worsened client-level Brier score, indicating limited and heterogeneous benefit at the smallest federation size. 

The implementation of federated training resulted in an enhancement of client-level AUROC from 0.588 to 0.629 (Supplementary Fig. S3.3) However, this development was accompanied by a decline in AUPRC from 0.226 to 0.207, and a deterioration in Brier score from 0.159 to 0.264. In the context of unseen clinics, the federated AUROC was 0.538, in contrast to 0.659 for central training, suggesting limited generalization at this modest federation size. 

# S3.3.2 - 5. Site's Evaluation 

Supplementary Figure S3.4 - 5 Sites Evaluation: Per-client validation performance for the 5-client federation. Each client index is represented by paired local and federated boxplots for AUROC, AUPRC, and Brier score. Federated training produced modest gains in AUROC and AUPRC, while the Brier score increased, suggesting improved discrimination but weaker client-level calibration. 

With 5 clients, federated training produced a modest AUROC gain (0.594 to 0.606) and improved AUPRC (0.176 to 0.197), while Brier score worsened (Supplementary Fig. S3.4). The unseen federated AUROC remained below central training (0.543 vs 0.663). S3.3.3 - 10. Site's Evaluation 

Supplementary Figure S3.5 - 10 Site’s Evaluation: Per-client validation performance for the 10-client federation. Box plots summarize local and federated model performance across runs for each client index. Federation improved the mean AUROC and AUPRC across clients, with visible heterogeneity between clients, while the Brier score remained less favorable than the local baseline. 

With 10 clients, the federated model improved AUROC from 0.575 to 0.623 and AUPRC from 0.198 to 0.222 (Supplementary Fig. S3.5). However, unseen AUROC remained lower than the central reference (0.543 vs 0.654), suggesting improved client-level performance but incomplete recovery of pooled-data generalization. S3.3.4 - 25. Site's Evaluation 

Supplementary Figure S3.6 - 25 Site’s Evaluation: Per-client validation performance for the 25-client federation. Paired boxplots show isolated local and federated/global performance for AUROC, AUPRC, and Brier score. Federation improved AUROC and AUPRC for most client validations, indicating broad discrimination gains, whereas the Brier score showed little improvement on average. 

With 25 clients, federated training showed stronger client-level gains, improving AUROC from 0.542 to 0.615 and AUPRC from 0.162 to 0.214 (Supplementary Fig. S3.6). Improvements were observed in 80% of client validations for both metrics. The unseen federated AUROC was 0.549 compared with 0.651 centrally. 

# S3.3.5 - 33. Site's Evaluation 

Supplementary Figure S3.7 - 33 Site’s Evaluation: Per-client validation performance for the 33-client federation. Local and federated/global models are compared on a per-client basis for AUROC, AUPRC, and Brier score. Federated training yielded substantial improvements in AUROC and AUPRC across many clients, but the client-level Brier score generally increased, suggesting a trade-off between discrimination and calibration. 

With 33 clients, federated training improved AUROC from 0.535 to 0.617 and AUPRC from 0.158 to 0.230 (Supplementary Fig. S3.7). Site-level gains were broad but heterogeneous. The unseen federated AUROC was 0.550, remaining below the central reference of 0.656. S3.3.6 - 40. Site's Evaluation 

Supplementary Figure S3.8 - 40 Site’s Evaluation: Per-client validation performance for the 40-client federation. Each panel compares client-wise local performance with federated/global performance for AUROC, AUPRC, and the Brier score. Federation yielded consistent improvements in discrimination, particularly for AUPRC, while the Brier score remained inconsistent and often favored the local models. 

With 40 clients, federated training improved AUROC from 0.541 to 0.624 and AUPRC from 0.160 to 0.222 (Supplementary Fig. S3.8). This setting yielded the highest unseen federated AUROC among the evaluated groups (0.562), although it remained below central training (0.656). 

# S3.3.7 - 50. Site's Evaluation Supplementary Figure S3.9 - 50 Site’s Evaluation: This is the per-client validation performance for the 50-client federation. Boxplots compare isolated local models with the federated/global model across client indices and runs. Although Brier score did not improve consistently, this setting showed the largest client-level AUROC and AUPRC gains, indicating that federation most strongly benefited discrimination rather than calibration. With 50 clients, federated training produced the largest client-level gains: AUROC increased from 0.542 to 0.635 and AUPRC from 0.169 to 0.245 (Supplementary Fig. S3.9). Most client validations improved for discrimination metrics. On unseen clinics, federated AUROC was 0.554 compared with 0.654 centrally, showing strong client-level benefit but persistent central-model superiority for unseen discrimination. 

# Supplementary 4: Implementation details 

FL-Net is implemented as two multi-service components, the FL-Net Platform and the FL-Net Site , which together provide the infrastructure for federated data discovery and FL (Supplementary Fig. S4.1). To support Tool development, we provide an FL-Net Tool 

template written in Python that allows developers to create both FL-Tools and ETL-Tools for use within the system. While an FL-Net Tool-API is also available for direct implementation, use of the template is recommended. Further documentation is available under 

https://federated-learning.net/documentation , with specific documentation on the technical 

architecture available at https://federated-learning.net/documentation/docs/intro/architecture/welcome. 

# Shared Services 

Several services are used by both the FL-Net Platform and the FL-Net Site , with each Site 

and the Platform deploying their own instance of each service. 

The Orchestration API (Orch API) handles the lifecycle of both ETL and FL-related Tools . It is implemented using the Quarkus framework in Java and exposes an HTTP server that is accessed exclusively by the Local and Global Learning APIs. Persistence is provided by an additionally deployed PostgreSQL instance (Chainguard PostgreSQL image). 

The Controller manages all data exchange occurring during an FL project run, both at the 

Site level and at the aggregator, between the running FL-Tools. It is based on the 

FeatureCloud Controller 4, but has been adapted for the FL-Net Tool API. The Controller is 

implemented in Go and is intended for secure FL message communication handling including optional privacy enhancing techniques. The Controller operates as a TCP client to the Relay Server while also deploying an HTTP server. As part of the adaptation, an in-memory message store for incoming messages and a message queue for outgoing messages were added, and the HTTP server was extended to support sending and retrieving messages via the FL-Net Tool API. Each FL project run's HTTP server is protected by a dedicated API key that is communicated only to the associated FL-Tool, preventing concurrently running FL-Tools from accessing data belonging to other runs. 

Keycloak provides authentication and authorization. Each FL-Net Site deploys its own Keycloak instance, and the FL-Net Platform maintains a separate instance of its own. In addition, every FL-Net Site must hold an account within the FL-Net Platform's Keycloak instance, which protects the Platform against unauthorized or malicious FL-Net Sites . As with the Orch API, persistence is handled by an additionally deployed PostgreSQL instance (Chainguard PostgreSQL image). FL-Net Platform Services 

The frontend is used by global Researchers to perform DDQ, retrieve statistics, submit FL requests, manage Schemas and manage and use models and is additionally used by the 

Platform-Admin to monitor service health and the Auditor to review and certificate Tools . It is implemented in Angular and containerized using the Chainguard nginx image to serve the compiled application as well as to proxy requests to the relevant services, ensuring TLS encryption while services can expose plain HTTP. 

The Global Learning API coordinates and manages the FL project run lifecycle, authenticates and coordinates FL-Net Sites , orchestrates FL project runs, and handles Tool 

storage, including secure Tool building and certification, as well as model storage and the automatic generation of models from FL project runs. It is implemented using the Quarkus framework in Java and exposes a HTTP API which is accessed via the browser by a 

Researchers for DDQ, statistics retrieval, and FL requests. Each FL-Net client also accesses this server to receive and respond to federated requests and to download Tools for local execution. Lastly, this server is accessed by other services of the Platform . Persistence is provided by an additionally deployed PostgreSQL instance with pgvector support. By incorporating pgvector, FL-Net retains full compatibility with all Retrieval-Augmented 

Generation and Large Language Model capabilities previously introduced in PoSyMed 5.

The Data Modeler API manages Schemas, Ontologies, DataTypes , and their associated embeddings. The embeddings help search through the millions of NO which typically occur in biomedical ontologies. It is implemented using the Quarkus framework in Java and exposes an RESTful HTTP server that is accessed via the browser by global Researcherss for 

Schema and DataType management, by FL-Net Sites for Schema retrieval in cohort creation, and by a global users for more extensive Schema , Ontology , and DataType 

management. Persistence is provided by an additionally deployed Neo4j instance. 

The Relay Server handles communication between the local Controllers to ensure the secure exchange of e.g. model parameters during FL project runs. It is based on the 

FeatureCloud Relay Server 4, adapted for FL-Net's FL orchestration requirements, and is 

implemented in Go. It deploys an HTTP server for FL project run management, used exclusively by the Global Learning API, alongside a TCP server with custom framing used by FL-Net Sites .

# FL-Net Site Services 

The frontend is used by the Site-Owner to control DDQ, statistics, and learning,check auditing logs of any federated secured access, to administer the Site 's (patient) data and to monitor service health. As with the Platform frontend, it is implemented in Angular and containerized using the Chainguard nginx image. 

The Local Learning API manages local data storage, Tool-assisted ETL import, DDQ, statistics and learning access and access control, and maintains extensive auditing of changes to patient data as well as all federated access, including federated queries, statistics, and learning requests and runs. It is implemented using the Quarkus framework in Java and exposes a HTTP API which is accessed exclusively by the client's Site-Owner ,while the Local Learning API itself acts as an authenticated WebSocket client to the FL-Net 

Platform , through which it receives and responds to federated queries, statistics requests, and learning requests, and synchronizes FL project run orchestration. Persistence is provided by an additionally deployed PostgreSQL instance (Chainguard image). Communication and Encryption of FL messages 

Communication between FL-Tools is mediated by the Controller service, which relays messages to their intended recipients via the Relay Server . All data exchanged between clients, or between a client and the aggregator during training, is additionally encrypted on top of standard TLS using ECIES-style encryption over X25519, which replaces the NIST P-224 curve previously used by FeatureCloud while retaining the same underlying encryption technique. The shared secret is derived via ECDH, combining the recipient's per-FL-run ephemeral public key with a per-message ephemeral private key generated by the sender. This additional encryption layer does not apply to broadcasts from the aggregator to the clients, which rely on TLS encryption alone for performance reasons: since the scheme requires per-recipient encryption, applying it to broadcasts would force the aggregator to send individual messages to each client rather than a single message distributed to all clients by the Relay Server .

Authentication proceeds on two levels. Mutual authentication between the Controller and 

Relay Server is achieved via mTLS at the transport level. On top of this, application-layer authentication of clients toward the Relay Server is implemented through API keys, generated by the Relay Server per FL project run and distributed via the Global and Local Learning APIs to each Controller , which transmits its key as the first message upon connection; connections presenting keys that are invalid for the relevant FL project run are rejected. 

# Maintenance and Security 

To ensure ongoing security and maintainability, FL-Net undergoes weekly scans for container and dependency vulnerabilities, as well as secret detection and static code analysis. 

Tools deployed on the FL-Net Platform are constructed directly from their corresponding Git repositories. The build and security pipeline utilizes the repository Dockerfile to execute vulnerability and malware scans. Upon execution, the pipeline binds the security scan outputs, the generated Docker image, and the functional testing dataset to the specific Git 

commit hash, as PoSyMed suggested 5. PosyMed's testing pipeline has been expanded to 

simulate the functionality of multiple clients, thereby also supporting FL 5. For this purpose, 

multiple data sets can be assigned or generated dynamically. 

During the Tool audit, an authenticated Auditor reviews the Tool version using the source code pinned to the commit hash along with the associated pipeline outputs. Tools are awarded up to five certification stars, where each star denotes formal approval by an individual Auditor . This auditing protocol establishes verifiability and increases trust in reviewed Tool versions. 

# Deployment 

Two deployment repositories are provided. One is for the FL-Net Site . The other is for the FL-Net Platform . This enables self-hosted deployment of FL-Net. Both deployment folders are based on Docker Compose and include a Python script that generates initial secrets and guides users through configuration persisted via environment files; this script has no dependencies beyond the Python 3 (≥3.6) standard library. Running the FL-Net Site requires only Docker and Docker Compose, whereas the FL-Net Platform additionally requires an SSL certificate and a registered domain; the latter requirement is optional for the FL-Net 

Site . The FL-Net Site deployment folder further includes a backup shell script that consolidates all persisted data and relevant generated secrets, such as database passwords, into a single timestamped folder. Further documentation on the backup process is available at https://federated-learning.net/documentation/docs/deployment/backup-client. 

Supplementary Figure S4.1 - System architecture and operational flow of FL-Net: FL-Net follows a star shaped network architecture, where a central Platform coordinates multiple distributed Sites 

without requiring direct access to local, patient-level data. Both the FL-Net Platform and the FL-Net 

Site are protected through access and identity management by their own Keycloak instance. They also both expose APIs and services via HTTP endpoints accessed via their relative frontend using their own NGINX for routing, TLS and additional security. FL project run communication is handled via 

Controller services per FL-Net Site relaying messages via the Relay Server deployed on the FL-Net 

Platform . The FL-Net Platform uses PostgreSQL with pgvector to also store embeddings, and neo4j to store the graph structure of Schemas , ontologies and DataTypes . The FL-Net Site only requires vanilla PostgreSQL data storage. Additionally, the FL-Net Platform provides the documentation as an extra service. The typical operational flow in FL-Net starts with data holders deploying their own FL-Net Site and importing data according to an existing Schema or creating a Schema describing their data. In the next step, a Researchers runs a DDQ to see if a sufficient amount of patient data could be used for FL. If they are satisfied with the amount, they create a FL project. This contains the information of the DDQ and which variables should be used for training, the workflow to be executed, and how the resulting model should be published. When the FL project is created, it is packed into a FL request sent to all Sites . Data holders whose client previously answered the connected DDQ can review the request. The request includes the project configuration, selected Tools , and their settings, as well as certifying audit reports provided by specific Auditors . For example, a Tool may have a up to five verified stars indicating that it has been reviewed and approved by five Auditors . Data holders can then allow the request for a subset of patients of their choosing. After at least 3 Sites approved the request, the Researchers may start the FL project. Any Site that didn’t yet approve the relevant request cannot join anymore now. Each participating Site is informed of the start of the project, pulling the relevant Tool and exporting the relevant data into their locally executed Tool . Finally, the aggregator of this FL project run, running on a random Site , uploads the resulting model to the FL-Net 

Platforms model store with appropriate access settings depending on FL project settings. In case of maximum model privacy, the final model is only distributed to the FL-Net Sites but not to the FL-Net 

Platform .

# Supplementary 5: Other Federated Learning frameworks 

Several existing FL frameworks cover key components of the infrastructure required for multicenter clinical research but differ significantly in their scope of application. To enable a structured comparison, we evaluate each framework based on the five defined research requirements. To avoid the confusion of conflicting framework vocabularies, we reuse the terminology established in FL-Net. Note that this is purely a conceptual mapping and does not mean components like FL-Net Tools are cross-compatible. 

RE1 - Semantic and syntactic data harmonization: This requirement involves converting heterogeneous local data into a common representation based on shared concepts and validation rules enforcing quality control. FL-Net implements this through NO, NDT, Schemas ,and validated ETL processes that map and validate local data. Full support requires an integrated semantic and syntactic harmonization layer that firstly can be shared by all participating Sites and secondly enforces validation rules ensuring quality control. Partial support is met if a framework provides built-in preprocessing, mapping, data loaders, or dataset-specific transformations without a common semantic model and validation. The requirement is not met if data preparation is left entirely to individual applications or users, only providing an entrypoint for harmonization logic but no functionality itself. 

RE2 - Secure, Authenticated, and Auditable Access: This requirement mandates authenticated and encrypted remote access for Site-Owners , institutional control over all patient data disclosed through federated access, and auditing of all interactions with patient data. FL-Net provides authenticated and encrypted Site access and fine-grained control over federated data disclosure for Site-Owners . Tools are securely executed in isolation and use encrypted communication. All interactions with patient data are logged for auditing. This requirement is met if (i) technical safeguards, (ii) institutional disclosure control and (iii) auditing of any federated access on at least patient level are all fulfilled. (i) For technical safeguards, any access must be authenticated. All external communication, including the federated learning channel, must be encrypted. Code on private data must be executed in isolated environments. (ii) For institutional disclosure control, the Site-Owner needs to be able to authorize and control any external access, irrespective of whether it's for discovery or learning. Any learning should be reviewable. (iii) Lastly, for auditing, the FL framework must provide auditing that logs any external interaction with patient data. Partial support is met if all technical safeguards (i) are supported, the requirement is not met otherwise. Please note that requiring manual data addition to a specific workflow is not considered disclosure control by this criteria. 

RE3 - Reusable and Versioned Federated Workflows: This requirement addresses the question of whether FL can be defined as persistent, reusable, and versioned, rather than being recreated for each study. FL-Net treats workflows and Tools as reusable, versioned, publishable store objects with defined inputs, outputs and hyperparameters. Full support is met when an executable version of workflow and Tool objects including both their configuration options and executable components is persistently stored and can be reused. If no workflow system exists but the requirement is met for Tools , partial fulfillment is achieved. Furthermore, any data scientist access based purely on notebooks only earns partial fulfillment, as these are reusable, but versioning is then optional and usually done externally, e.g. via git versioning. The framework may use external services such as an external Docker registry, as long as these are integrated into the usage of the framework, and still earn up to complete fulfillment. 

RE4 - Identification of cohorts while preserving patient privacy: This requirement concerns determining whether Sites have sufficient and appropriate data prior to training, without disclosing patient-level data records. FL-Net performs ontology-based queries locally and returns only permission-controlled, aggregated counts. Full support is met when a dedicated, cross-Site data feasibility query mechanism is available prior to training that protects individual data records through aggregation or equivalent disclosure controls but offers semantic exploration. This mechanism must encapsulate data discovery over multiple 

Sites simultaneously, any mechanism that is on a per-Site basis only gives partial support. Partial support also applies when distributed aggregated analyses can technically be used for feasibility assessment, but no dedicated semantic layer for cross-Site identification is available. If feasibility is purely based on assumptions of data formatting, this criterion is not met. 

RE5 - Traceability of Approvals, Versions, Participation, and Results: This requirement addresses whether the entire execution context of a federated study remains traceable. The resulting model must be automatically linked with traceable information about the Tools ,hyperparameters, and metadata of the data used for its creation to all parties authorized to access the model. This traceability is necessary to enable reproducible and verifiable federated studies. In FL-Net, projects, participating Sites and their approvals, workflow and 

Tool versions, runs, metrics, and resulting models are recorded and linked to the corresponding execution. Full compliance is met if, for each federated execution, approvals of participating Sites , executed workflows including Tools and their version, and resulting outcomes are permanently recorded and automatically linked. This is also fulfilled in the case of using notebooks to document the FL execution, as they inherently contain the complete trace and output. The requirement is partially met when traceability is given but requires manual linkage (e.g., through log inspections, etc.), or if the federated execution of the workflow is traceable by participants, but the outputs lose linkage, e.g. by being available via download. The requirement is not met if the framework does not produce clear, linkable logs for at least Tool /workflow versioning of the FL execution. Relevant Site pseudonymization mechanisms that allow only the respective Site to link its own participations, while exposing only pseudonyms to other entities, may be used without impeding RE5. Furthermore, as not all federated consortia wish to publish outcomes, any system that limits the accessibility to the trace of an FL execution also earns fulfillment. 

# Apheris 

Apheris is a commercial framework for federated data networks in the life sciences and biopharmaceutical sectors. It executes models and workflows on distributed proprietary data, particularly in the areas of drug discovery, protein structure prediction, and foundation model applications. Datasets are given a name and a description by their relative data custodians, with these then available to the FL creating researcher. This means harmonization and data discovery is done manually, therefore not meeting RE1. The datasets however can be explored via statistics, therefore giving partial fulfillment of RE4. Data custodians may set 

asset policies, enabling disclosure control and ensuring RE2 is met 6,7 . The FL execution 

management is done in a notebook style, where a researcher creates and runs a notebook. This inherently has no direct versioning support, only partially fulfilling RE3, but fulfilling RE5 

as the notebook contains the complete trace of the FL execution 6,7 . In summary, Apheris 

does not fulfill RE1, partially fulfills RE3 and RE4 and fully supports RE2 and RE5 (Table 1), but it should be noted that it’s a commercial, non open source solution focused on single projects. 

# CAFEIN 

Developed within the CERN community, CAFEIN is a federated AI framework that enables collaborative ML across institutions and data spaces. Its main contribution is extending large-scale scientific computing framework to federated AI workflows. However, compared to FL-Net, CAFEIN is primarily a general-purpose FL execution framework rather than a clinical 

semantic framework. The ontology-based structure is also not a central focus 8. RE1 is not 

fulfilled, while CAFEIN offers modular and extensible data loaders, these must be added by the Sites themselves and therefore coordinated within the FL execution. RE2 is partially met here as CAFEIN focuses on technical safeguards, but no specific disclosure control 

mechanism is implemented 8. Tools and workflows are described in JSON format as settings 

like files. This does not implement any versioning system, and therefore RE3 is not met. However, any run FL is stored at the Sites and the Platform in attached storage volumes, storing local and global models, log files and TensorBoard files, linking them by their 

execution 8. Therefore, RE5 is fully met. Lastly, RE4 is not met as no specific data discovery 

is supported. In summary, CAFEIN does not fulfill RE1, RE3 and RE4, partially fulfills RE2 and fully fulfills RE5 (Table 1). 

# DataSHIELD 

DataSHIELD is an open-source framework for realtime, non-disclosive federated data analysis that enables multi-center statistical co-analysis without pooling or exposing 

individual-level records 9,10 . Harmonization must be done as part of the workflow itself. 

However, dsOMOP was developed and integrated into DataSHIELD, offering harmonization 

support for the OMOP data model. 11,12  Therefore, RE1 is partially met, as harmonization exists but is limited to OMOP and the capabilities of the added package. RE4 is only partially met, as non-disclosive exploratory summary statistics are available, but cross domain data discovery is not supported. RE2 is only partially met. While e.g. role-based access control and server-side disclosure traps that evaluate every function output in real time to prevent the extraction of individual patient data exist, all of these are Server site protection mechanisms. However, Site specific disclosure control, especially on patient level, does not exist. RE3 is partially met as DataSHIELD functions specifically describe tools/algorithms and are versioned as DataSHIELD itself is versioned, but workflows themselves are not directly versioned but handled as notebooks. However, as federated analysis is done via 

notebooks, these notebooks keep a complete trace of the FL execution, fulfilling RE5 9,10 . In 

summary, DataSHIELD partially fulfills RE1, RE2, RE3, RE4 and fully fulfills RE5 (Table 1) and only supports federated analysis using vetted functions but not full FL with community added algorithms. 

# FATE 

FATE is a specialized, open-source framework for collaborative and federated learning that meets data privacy requirements. It focuses on the production-ready implementation of collaborative ML workflows for large-scale, distributed enterprise and institutional scenarios. Specifically, FATE addresses horizontal and vertical federated learning settings, as well as secure computational methods, which serve as the technical foundation for 

privacy-preserving model training 13 . It fully supports the technical elements of RE2 related to 

data protection and secure data processing, but has no specific data disclosure mechanisms, therefore earning a partial fulfillment of RE2. Tools are handled by FATE itself as Algorithm components, with workflows described as a directed acyclic graph of algorithms with additional information on participants and configuration. However the versioning of the algorithms is then handled externally via e.g. git. Therefore, RE3 is only partially met. Also, output of workflows is handled via download, therefore only earning partial fulfillment of RE5. No specific harmonization support is given, resulting in no fulfillment of RE1. Data discovery 

is also only possible via federated statistics, earning only partial fulfillment of RE4 13,14 . In 

summary, FATE does not fulfill RE1, partially fulfills RE2, RE3 and RE4, and RE5 (Table 1). 

# FeatureCloud 

FeatureCloud (FC) is an integrated federated learning (FL) framework that enables users to assemble workflows using containerized applications from its AI Store, executed locally via 

Controllers at each participating Site 4. However, FC requires Sites to manually join projects 

and provide pre-harmonized data, with preprocessing applications available via the AI Store and no specific framework support, earning no fulfillment of RE1. The absence of data discovery capabilities results in no fulfillment of RE4. Requirements RE2 is only partially met: although FC provides Docker isolation, restricted network access, secure communication, certification, and project-level execution tracking, local data governance relies on manual workflow reviews, no specific disclosure control mechanism exists. Conversely, FC fully satisfies RE3 by allowing applications to be published, certified, structured into workflows, 

and reused across projects, with documentation available per Tool for configuration options 4.

However, RE5 is only partially fulfilled. While all involved Sites , including the Site that started the FL, store logs that can be linked to the executed Tools in the AI store of FC, this linkage must be done manually and is not done automatically by FeatureCloud. In summary, FC does not fulfill RE1 and RE4, partially fulfills RE2 and RE5 and fully fulfills RE3 (Table 1). 

# Fed-BioMed 

Fed-BioMed is an open-source framework for FL in real-world biomedical and clinical 

contexts 15 . Its key contribution is translating FL from experimental ML libraries into a 

transparent, trustworthy, hospital-ready execution environment 15 . Notable features include 

clear separation of researcher and non technical users, support for medical data custodians, 

and emphasis on governance, security, and usability 15 . It fully satisfies RE2, as a

Fed-BioMed Client has auditing available, specific disclosure control mechanisms and 

technical security 15 . Fed-BioMed handles federated access via jupyter notebooks 15 .

Inherently, this only gives partial fulfillment of RE3 as versioning is then handled by other services such as git. However, RE5 is completely fulfilled as the notebook solution chosen 

by Fed-BioMed correctly collects the complete trace of an FL execution 15,16 . RE1 is only 

partially met, as dataset loaders and local preprocessing do not constitute a full-fledged 

common validation layer 16 . RE4 is only partially fulfilled, as only a free text description is 

available per dataset as well as tags, but no structured and in depth semantic and syntactic 

description 16 . In summary, Fed-BioMed does partially fulfill RE1, RE3, and RE4 and fully 

fulfills RE2 and RE5 (Table 1). 

# Flower 

Flower is a universally applicable framework for converting existing machine learning 

workloads into federated applications for simulation and FL 17 .

RE1 is not met, as data preparation remains application-specific and Flower does not 

provide for harmonization 17 . As federated statistics is available, RE4 is partially fulfilled, 

requiring manual work across federated statistics results. RE2 is incomplete, as Flower documents TLS, Flower client authentication, and integrated secure aggregation, while audit logging is available as an enterprise feature and local approvals for the use of clinical data or 

disclosure policies at the cohort level not supported 17,18 .

RE3 is partially fulfilled as the Flower Hub stores Tools as versioned, reusable objects, but 

Workflows are not stored 17,18 . RE5 is completely fulfilled, as notebook style federated access 

can serve to record the complete stack of FL execution 17,18 . Flower does not fulfill RE1, 

partially fulfills RE2, RE3, RE4 and fully fulfills RE5 (Table 1). 

# MedPerf 

MedPerf is an open framework for the federated evaluation and benchmarking of medical AI 

models 19 . Instead of training federated models, MedPerf focuses on the standardized, 

privacy-preserving evaluation of registered models on distributed, external, and often 

previously unseen clinical datasets 19 . A benchmark is registered as a regulated collection of 

containers for data preparation, reference models, and metrics and requires administrative approval, which supports reusable benchmark workflows and registered artifacts. However, as the benchmark Tools are only for evaluation and not FL, requirements RE3 and RE5 are 

not met, as Tools defined as FL-Tools are not supported 19,20 . Its local, containerized 

evaluation workflow and governance by stakeholders for the benchmarking use case supports disclosure control, security and auditing. However, as there is no federated learning channel to use, the technical requirements are not met and RE2 is therefore also not 

met 19,20 . Datasets are registered with specific labels, giving unharmonized information about 

them 21 . Benchmark creators can then harmonize using benchmark-specific data preparers. 

Therefore, MedPerf lacks a complete semantic and syntactic mapping, earning partial 

fulfillment of RE1 19,20 . Site-Owners must run the benchmarks, so explorative data discovery 

as required by RE4 is not available. While MedPerf satisfies several of these requirements, it is engineered specifically for federated evaluation and benchmarking rather than FL. Consequently, it cannot serve as a framework for model training, which is central to the scope of this paper. In summary, MedPerf does not fulfill RE2, RE3, RE4 and RE5 and partially fulfills RE1 (Table 1) and does not support FL. 

# NVIDIA FLARE 

NVIDIA FLARE is an open-source SDK for FL that facilitates the transition from simulation 

and research to production-ready, real-world FL deployments 22,23 . Its key contribution is a 

scalable, enterprise-oriented runtime for multi-partner federated learning Tools. This runtime includes secure provisioning, mutual TLS-based communication, audit logging, role-based 

management, privacy filtering, and support for various training libraries and workflows 22,23 . It 

fully supports RE2 through secure provisioning, authenticated identities, authorization, location policies, data protection filters, secure communication, and logging, as described in 

its security architecture 22,23 . It partially supports RE3, as jobs and workflows are explicitly 

deployable objects that can be transferred and reused, but a specific persistence via NVIDIA 

Flare itself for these jobs does not exist, so versioning is handled externally e.g. via git 22,23 .

FL executions are kept partially traceable and reusable through the Job system. While a Job keeps the track of the FL execution itself including participants via a deploy map and Tools as part of the job, the final results are only accessible via download and not 

directly a part of the job execution 22,23  Therefore, RE5 is partially fulfilled. While 

preprocessing can be implemented in jobs, no specific harmonization capabilities are given, thus partially fulfilling RE1. Considering RE4, dedicated support for federated statistics across Sites exists, but semantically the same variables are not automatically harmonized, 

making the data discovery partially manual and therefore only partially fulfilling RE4 22,23 . In 

summary, NVIDIA FLARE partially fulfills RE1, RE3, RE4 and RE5 and fully fulfills RE2 (Table 1). 

# OpenFL 

OpenFL is an open-source, python based framework for FL that integrates existing machine and deep learning pipelines into collaborative training processes that protect data privacy. This framework focuses on providing a practical framework for TensorFlow- and 

PyTorch-based FL-Tools 24 . No specific harmonization support is given except from 

preprocessing capabilities, resulting in no fulfillment of RE1. Considering data discovery, federated analytics allows for manual discovery earning partial fulfillment of RE4. Training plans are manually accepted per dataset, with data being loaded in manually. While security aspects of the FL are incorporated, the manual data selection only gives partial fulfillment of RE2. While FL Plans package workflows including their configuration, no versioning is directly supported and RE3 is therefore only partially met. Similarly, the final model is simply downloaded, losing the trace to the FL plan. Therefore, RE5 is only partially fulfilled 24,25 . In 

summary, OpenFL does not fulfill RE1, partially fulfills RE2, RE3, RE4 and RE5 (Table 1). 

# Personal Health Train 

The Personal Health Train (PHT) is a distributed FAIR data paradigm (originated within the GO-FAIR initiative) that shifts the computing model to routing algorithm containers ("trains") 

across clinical institutions ("stations") 9,10 . While PHT promotes FAIR data, the software does 

not support any specific harmonization or defined data standards, data itself is simply 

mounted into the trains 26 . Therefore, RE1 is not met. The PHT architectures natively 

integrate metadata query endpoints. However, the specification for the datasets is very 

simple and requires manual discovery over all the stations 26 . Therefore, RE4 is not met. RE2 

is fully met through station-level governance, where local station managers review, authorize, and isolate incoming trains using secure container engines, cryptographic protocols, and local policy enforcement, auditing the whole process. RE3 is fully met because analytical workflows are encapsulated as immutable, version-controlled Docker containers (“trains”) that are registered in central train depots and re-executed reproducibly across Sites . However, results of train runs are simply downloaded, losing traceability to their 

train and therefore only partially meeting RE5 9,10,26 . In summary, Personal Health Train does 

not fulfill RE1 and RE4, partially fulfills RE5 and fully fulfills RE2 and RE3 (Table 1), but FL is sequential (from station to station) and therefore less performant as all other, star shaped architecture based solutions. 

# PySyft 

PySyft is an open-source library that makes ML easily accessible, secure, and private. This work's main contribution lies in abstracting technical privacy primitives, such as FL, secure multi-party computation, and differential privacy. This makes them easier to use in experimental and development-oriented ML workflows. Therefore, PySyft is particularly relevant as a methodological and programmable foundation for privacy-preserving ML 

experiments 27,28 . In PySyft, datasets contain mock data to help researchers understand the 

data structure without disclosing any real data. This allows for data discovery, although this must be done manually, therefore earning partial fulfillment of RE4. RE1 is not fulfilled, data is simply described but not harmonized. However, RE2 is supported because data owners can control access and approve calculations without disclosing raw data. Workflows are packaged into code requests, containing all code requested to be run. A code request is 

therefore a reusable, immutable representation of the Workflow 27,28 . This results in partial 

fulfillment of RE3, as versioning is not included in this design. Lastly, results of an FL execution are simply retrieved, losing their connection to the code request, only earning 

partial fulfillment of RE5 27,28 . In summary, PySyft does not fulfill RE1, partially fulfills RE3, 

RE4 and RE5 and fully supports RE2 (Table 1). 

# Rhino FCP 

As a commercial provider, Rhino FCP combines federated computing, distributed pipelines, and a harmonized data layer to enable secure data collaboration. Its main contribution is the operationalization of federated learning as a production-ready, multi-partner framework. However, as a commercial solution, individual consortia are clearly separated, and the 

purpose of Rhino FCP is only the support of a single project in their FL 29 . In this regard, RE1 

is only partially met, since while Rhino enables data harmonization and AI-assisted mapping, these systems are per project only and no cross project support, e.g. based on ontologies, 

exists 29 . RE2 is enabled by role-based access control, secure containers, privacy-enhancing 

techniques, encryption, and comprehensive audit logging 29,30 . RE3 and RE5 are partially met 

because, although federated MLOps and AI lifecycle management are mentioned, the reviewed public pages do not specify immutable workflow versions or a complete model for 

tracing the provenance of projects, cohorts, approvals, and artifacts 29 . RE4 is partially met, 

as federated analytics and the exploration of protected data are offered, but this is, similarly to the harmonisation, only per project without cross domain support as possible via 

ontologies 29,30 . In summary, Rhino FCP partially fulfills RE1, RE3, RE4 and RE5 and fully 

fulfills RE2 (Table 1), but it should be noted that it’s a commercial, non open source solution focused on single projects. 

# Vantage6 

Vantage6 is an open-source framework designed for privacy-preserving FL and secure data 

analysis from distributed sources 31 . Its main contribution is its flexible, container-based 

architecture, which supports both horizontal and vertical data silos. This architecture grants participating institutions a high degree of autonomy over their data, infrastructure, and executable algorithms. Thus, Vantage6 specifically addresses the organizational and 

technical heterogeneity of real-world, multicenter research networks 31 . RE1 is not met, there 

is no common system for semantic and syntactic harmonization at the local level, the system of using docker images as processing Tools may be used to perform preprocessing for 

harmonization, but the framework has no specific support 31 . This architecture and the data 

center operator’s control and log access over executable algorithms support RE2 at the 

Platform level 31 . Federated Access is gained via notebook style access. This only partially 

fulfills RE3 as versioning isn’t incorporated, but RE5 is fully met as the notebook contains the 

complete trace and outputs of an FL execution 31 . RE4 is partially met: Distributed 

aggregation algorithms can be used to calculate feasibility information, and local policies can restrict the results; however, no cross domain discovery mechanism exists, Sites must be individually queried and manually analyzed and mapping between Sites must be done 

manually without ontology annotation support available by the system 31 . In summary, 

Vantage6 does not fulfill RE1, partially fulfills RE3 and RE4 and fully fulfills RE2 and RE5 (Table 1). 

# S6: Glossary 

Term  Meaning 

Data discovery query (DDQ)  A federated query is fired to all connected 

Sites to aggregate in a private, preserving manner how many patients fit to the query criteria (rounded), explained in Supplementary 2 NDT  Any specific DataType Node. A DataType Node represents the syntactic information of a variable. 

NO  Any specific node in the ontology DAG. An Ontology Node represents the semantic information of a variable. 

NS  Any specific Schema Node. A Schema 

Node represents a linkage of a DataType and Ontology Node. 

FL-Net Platform  The coordination instance of FL-Net to which all FL-Net Sites connect to. Also simply called Platform .

Researcher 

A Platform user who launches DDQ, creates a FL project from it, and carries it out accordingly. 

FL-Net Site 

A connected clinic to the FL-Net network, also simply called Site 

Site-Owner 

The responsible person for managing data inside a Site 

Tool  A Tool describes code that can be used for ETL, FL, or inference. Therefore, 

ETL-Tools , FL-Tools and Inference-Tools 

exist 

Relay Server  The global server, which relays FL messages 

Controller  The local server, which sends and receives FL messages to the Relay Server 

Auditor  The responsible person, which is allowed to audit Tools Supplementary References 

1. Strack, B. et al. Impact of HbA1c measurement on hospital readmission rates: analysis 

of 70,000 clinical database patient records. Biomed Res. Int. 2014 , 781670 (2014). 

2. Merkel, D. Docker: lightweight Linux containers for consistent development and 

deployment. Linux Journal 2014 , 2 (2014). 

3. Brendan McMahan, H., Moore, E., Ramage, D., Hampson, S. & Agüera y Arcas, B. 

Communication-efficient learning of deep networks from decentralized data. arXiv 

[cs.LG] (2016) doi:10.48550/arXiv.1602.05629. 

4. Matschinske, J. et al. The FeatureCloud platform for federated learning in biomedicine: 

Unified approach. J. Med. Internet Res. 25 , e42621 (2023). 

5. Süwer, S. et al. Biomedical systems biology workflow orchestration and execution with 

PoSyMed. arXiv [cs.SE] (2026) doi:10.48550/arXiv.2604.20906. 

6. Superior drug discovery models. Apheris https://www.apheris.com/. 

7. Apheris Product Documentation. Apheris https://www.apheris.com/docs/. 

8. Santos, D. R. et al. A federated learning platform as a Service for advancing stroke 

management in European clinical centers. arXiv [cs.CY] (2024) 

doi:10.48550/arXiv.2410.13869. 

9. Avraam, D. et al. DataSHIELD: mitigating disclosure risk in a multi-site federated 

analysis platform. Bioinform. Adv. 5, vbaf046 (2025). 

10. Beyan, O. et al. Distributed analytics on sensitive medical data: The Personal Health 

Train. Data Intell. 2, 96–107 (2020). 

11. CommonDataModel: Definition and DDLs for the OMOP Common Data Model (CDM) .

(Github). 

12. Sarrat-González, D., Escribà-Montagut, X., Houghtaling, J. & González, J. R. dsOMOP: 

bridging OMOP CDM and DataSHIELD for secure federated analysis of standardized 

clinical data. Bioinformatics 41 , btaf286 (2025). 

13. Liu, Y., Fan, T., Chen, T., Xu, Q. & Yang, Q. FATE: An industrial grade platform for 

collaborative learning with data protection. J. Mach. Learn. Res. 22 , 226:1-226:6 (2021). 

14. Home - FATE. https://fate.readthedocs.io. 

15. Cremonesi, F. et al. Fed-BioMed: Open, transparent and trusted federated learning for 

real-world healthcare applications. in Studies in Computational Intelligence 19–41 

(Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham, 2025). 

16. Fed-BioMed User Documentation - Fed-BioMed Documentation. 

https://docs.fedbiomed.org/latest. 

17. Beutel, D. J. et al. Flower: A friendly federated learning research framework. arXiv 

[cs.LG] (2020) doi:10.48550/arXiv.2007.14390. 

18. Documentation. https://flower.ai/docs/. 

19. Karargyris, A. et al. Federated benchmarking of medical artificial intelligence with 

MedPerf. Nat. Mach. Intell. 5, 799–810 (2023). 

20. Benchmark Workflow. https://docs.medperf.org/workflow/. 

21. https://docs.medperf.org/getting_started/data_owner_dem. 

22. Roth, H. R. et al. NVIDIA FLARE: Federated learning from simulation to real-world. 

arXiv [cs.LG] (2022) doi:10.48550/arXiv.2210.13291. 

23. https://nvflare.readthedocs.io/en/2.4/. 

24. Foley, P. et al. OpenFL: the open federated learning library. Phys. Med. Biol. 67 , 214001 

(2022). 

25. Overview — OpenFL documentation. https://openfl.readthedocs.io/. 

26. PHT Metadata Schema Specification 1.0. https://schema.padme-analytics.de/. 

27. Ziller, A. et al. PySyft: A library for easy federated learning. in Federated Learning 

Systems 111–139 (Springer International Publishing, Cham, 2021). 

28. PySyft: Data Science on data you are not allowed to see. Syft Documentation 

https://docs.openmined.org/en/latest/. 

29. Rhino Federated Computing. https://www.rhinofcp.com/. 30. Rhino Federated Computing. https://www.rhinofcp.com. 

31. Moncada-Torres, A., Martin, F., Sieswerda, M., Van Soest, J. & Geleijnse, G. 

VANTAGE6: an open source priVAcy preserviNg federaTed leArninG infrastructurE for 

Secure Insight eXchange. AMIA Annu. Symp. Proc. 2020 , 870–877 (2020).