Certification-Based Differentially Private Learning
Mihnea Ghitu
Department of Computing
Imperial College London
London, United Kingdom
mihnea.ghitu20@imperial.ac.uk
Matthew Wicker
Department of Computing
Imperial College London
London, United Kingdom
m.wicker@imperial.ac.uk
Abstract—Differential privacy (DP) in machine learning is
typically achieved by adding noise to model parameters (private
learning) or to model outputs (private prediction). Recent work uses
formal methods, namely abstract interpretation, to provide tighter
privacy guarantees, but only for private prediction in classification
settings. In this work, we investigate the use of formal methods as
a general tool for tighter privacy analysis. First, we generalize the
abstract gradient training (AGT) framework to private prediction
in continuous, unbounded regression. Second, by reducing learning
in parameterized models to a regression problem over the
parameter space, we introduce Abstract Gradient Sampling (AGS),
an algorithm that enables reachability-based analysis to provide
guarantees for private learning. In both private prediction and
private learning, we provide tightened privacy accounting for the
AGT framework and a theoretical analysis demonstrating when
our smooth sensitivity upper-bounds yield favourable privacy-
utility trade-off. In practice, we validate that our regression
bounds are tighter than global-sensitivity baselines on regression
benchmarks, and, notably, yield the first finite privacy guarantees
in settings where global prediction sensitivity is a priori unbounded.
We also find that under matched conditions, our private learning
algorithm can outperform standard private learners.
Index Terms—Differential Privacy, Formal Verification, Ab-
stract Gradient Training, Private Learning, Private Prediction.
I. INTRODUCTION
Differential privacy (DP) provides a principled framework
for limiting the information revealed about individual data
points through the outputs of a computation [1], [2] and
serves as a necessary prerequisite to responsible deployment
of learning algorithms in many domains [3]. Privacy is largely
achieved through private learning, where privacy is enforced
during model training by perturbing gradients [4], objectives
[5], or parameters [6] despite the tendency of private learning
algorithms to substantially reduce model utility [7]. An
alternative that allows performant, non-private models to be
used with privacy guarantees is private prediction [8]. In
private prediction, privacy guarantees are enforced only at
inference time by perturbing the model’s outputs according
to their sensitivity. This paradigm is particularly appealing in
modern machine learning pipelines, where models are often
pre-trained, fine-tuned, or deployed in settings where retraining
under DP constraints is impractical or undesirable [9].
While private prediction leaves the model parameters un-
touched, the noise added to model outputs often erodes the
utility of model predictions [10]. Thus, a central challenge
in private prediction is reducing the magnitude of output-
privatizing noise by obtaining tighter sensitivity bounds for
model outputs [8], [11]. The use of naive global sensitivity
bounds is typically overly conservative, leading to excessive
noise and worse utility compared with private learning [10].
Recent promising work has connected certification-based
techniques to smooth sensitivity, yielding improved sensitivity
bounds [12], [13]. At its core, this offers a way to adapt
the noise magnitude to the local geometry of the data and
the model, and presents a compelling direction for not only
tightening privacy analysis but also leveraging formal methods
to inform algorithm design [14].
Unfortunately, the current works that connect formal methods
to tightened privacy analysis do so only for private prediction
and are restricted to analyzing classification tasks [11], [13].
To fully appreciate and unlock the potential of advances in
formal methods for improved privacy analysis, we begin by
extending prior works to provide tighter privacy guarantees
in unbounded and/or continuous regression tasks. To achieve
this, we develop a novel certification-based upper-bound on the
notion of smooth sensitivity [12]. We then observe that learning
algorithms in parametric models (i.e., algorithms that return
parameter vectors) can themselves be viewed as unbounded,
continuous regressors. We capitalize on this connection by
developing Abstract Gradient Sampling (AGS). Prior work
such as [15] uses Lipschitz bounds to calibrate privacy noise.
AGS instead places formal methods at the core of private
learning by employing abstract interpretation to soundly bound
the sensitivity of each update.
By generalizing prior work that establishes this connection,
we conduct a more complete empirical study of where
formal methods can improve state-of-the-art privacy guarantees.
Theoretically, we provide conditions under which the noise
distribution from certification-based algorithms dominates
those based on global sensitivity. Notably, our algorithms
are, to the best of our knowledge, the first that provide finite
pure differential privacy (ε-DP) private prediction guarantees
when there is not a known, a priori upper bound on the
global sensitivity. Further, we demonstrate that while pure-DP
algorithms are unable to use advanced composition, techniques
from formal methods are able to provide composition-like
bounds tightening without resorting to approximate DP.
Empirically, we validate our approach across a wide range
of benchmarks. We begin by studying the effect of our private
arXiv:2609.39629v1  [cs.LG]  30 Sep 2026


prediction bounds across a toy linear regression setup and
the California housing dataset. Across these benchmarks we
find that our novel private regression technique, AGT-R, bests
global sensitivity private prediction Private Aggregation of
Teacher Ensembles (PATE) [16] by several orders of magnitude
and additionally opens up a novel paradigm of tightening
privacy analysis by improving formal methods techniques.
To benchmark the effectiveness of the AGS algorithm, we
study MNIST and the IMDB movie sentiment classification
datasets. Similarly, we find that for small values of ϵ AGS
significantly outperforms DP-SGD under matched algorithm
conditions (same batch size, learning rate, etc). While the
models for which our bounds apply are limited compared to
the models analyzable by other private learning algorithms, we
hope that the novel connection between formal methods and
privacy in conjunction with the initial results demonstrating
dominance in a subset of cases will spur future works in this
direction. We summarize our paper’s contributions as follows:
• We extend the Abstract Gradient Training (AGT) framework
to regression settings by deriving a novel over-approximation
of smooth sensitivity for continuous-valued outputs.
• By connecting learning in parameterized models to un-
bounded, continuous regression, we present a novel algorithm
termed Abstract Gradient Sampling (AGS) which is the
first algorithm that uses formal methods as the basis for a
differentially private learning algorithm.
• We theoretically show when the AGT upper bound on smooth
sensitivity yields tighter DP compared to both the Laplace
and Gaussian mechanisms in regression, and discuss where
the AGS algorithm can enhance and improve differentially
private stochastic gradient descent (DP-SGD).
• We empirically validate our approach across a hierarchy of
model and dataset complexities, from linear regression and
deep neural networks to foundation models. In all settings,
our method can yield tighter privacy guarantees than existing
DP baselines. Our work furthers the emerging connection
between formal methods and privacy to the mutual benefit
of both sub-fields.
II. RELATED WORK
Private Prediction for Regression Differential privacy guar-
antees are typically achieved by adding noise — scaled to an
algorithm’s sensitivity — to the algorithm’s output [1]. When
the algorithm is a non-privately trained machine learning model,
this can be done by perturbing the model’s predictions, a setting
termed private prediction [8]. Global sensitivity, the largest
possible change in output between neighbouring datasets [2],
often yields loose bounds; tighter analyses can be obtained
by reducing the global sensitivity of a given mechanism [17],
[18], by exploiting properties of the specific dataset [12], or
by relaxing to approximate differential privacy [19], [20]. In
this work, we focus on differentially private prediction in the
regression setting. When the regressor’s output is quantised,
the PATE framework applies [16], [18]; when it is continuous,
one can fall back on standard mechanisms based on global
sensitivity, shard-and-aggregate, or data-dependent analysis [2].
To the best of our knowledge, no existing method provides
finite privacy guarantees for a non-privately trained regression
model whose output is neither quantised nor has an a priori
known global sensitivity bound.
Private Learning Mechanisms Although private prediction
offers conceptual advantages over private learning [8], its
empirical performance lags behind state-of-the-art private
learning mechanisms [10], [17]. Early work in private learning,
like early work in private prediction, added noise to the
outputs (and objective functions) of ERM algorithms [6].
Injecting noise during training instead yielded substantially
better utility–privacy trade-offs, most notably via DP-SGD [4].
Subsequent work has steadily tightened the analysis of private
learning algorithms [21]–[23], with these advances made widely
accessible through programming interfaces such as Opacus [24].
In contrast to these probabilistic refinements, we tighten the
analysis of DP-SGD using formal methods.
Combining Formal Methods and Privacy Formally proving
that a machine learning model meets a given specification was
largely popularized in response to adversarial robustness [25],
[26]. However, it has recently been extended to other important
notions of trustworthiness [27]–[30] including differential
privacy [13]. The current use of formal methods to tighten
privacy analysis of machine learning models is restricted to
private prediction in classification settings. By adopting and
extending the general smooth sensitivity-based framework of
[13] we push certification-based privacy analysis to private
learners.
III. PRELIMINARIES
Notation. We denote a general machine learning model
as a function f parameterized by θ ∈Rp which maps from
an input space to an output space f θ : X →Y (often with
X = Rm and Y = Rn). We consider supervised learning in the
regression setting with a labeled dataset D = {x(i), y(i)}N
i=1
and further assume that Y is a continuous metric space with
distance metric dist(·, ·).
A. Privacy
Differential privacy (DP) is a widely employed formal
privacy guarantee, which is deeply rooted in statistical databases
[1] and has been adopted as the standard for privacy guarantees
in machine learning [2], [4]. DP ensures that the output of an
algorithm applied to two adjacent sets of data is statistically
indistinguishable. We formally define DP as follows:
Definition III.1 ((ϵ, δ)-DP [2]). A randomized mechanism
M is (ϵ, δ)-differentially private if, for all pairs of adjacent
datasets D, D′ ∈D and any subset S ⊆Supp(M):
P (M(D) ∈S) ≤eϵP (M(D′) ∈S) + δ.
(ϵ, δ)-DP is also known as approximate DP, with pure or
ϵ-DP arising when δ = 0. Within machine learning, there are
two distinct approaches to privacy in private prediction and
private learning.


1) Private Learning: A private learning algorithm is one that
returns a learned model that itself is differentially private. In
machine learning, this is achieved by applying Definition III.1
taking D to be the training dataset, M to be the learning
algorithm, and Supp(M) to be the space of all possible param-
eters. To ensure the final parameters, θ, satisfy the definition,
Differentially Private Stochastic Gradient Descent (DP-SGD)
[4] modifies standard SGD through two core operations at
each training step: firstly, it uses a gradient clipping operation
to bound the contribution of each training point and adds
noise proportional to the clipping parameter to ensure the
training algorithms output distribution satisfies Definition III.1
[4]. Alternative approaches to private learning include DP-ERM
[6], where output and objective perturbation at training time are
shown to satisfy DP, and PATE [18], which partitions data into
disjoint subsets (thus reducing the model’s sensitivity through
sharding) and employs a teacher-student framework, where the
student model distills the teacher’s noisy aggregate vote into a
publicly trained model, converting private predictions into a
private learning procedure. Moreover, substantial advancements
have built on top of DP-SGD to enhance privacy analysis
including the use of advanced composition theorems [31] and
the moments accountant [4], [22], among others [32], [33].
2) Private Prediction: Private learning is not without
drawbacks; chiefly, private learning can cause substantial utility
degradation which often requires practitioners to retrain their
algorithm at different privacy levels potentially compromising
their privacy analysis and incurring considerable computational
cost [34], [35]. Private prediction represents an alternative
to achieving differential privacy in machine learning. The
central idea is to first learn a model f θ(x) without any privacy
protection and to subsequently add noise η to the results of
each prediction such that Definition III.1 is satisfied [8].
To ensure that the released prediction satisfies (ϵ, δ)-DP,
one typically calibrates the added noise, η, to the prediction’s
sensitivity. The most common and general notion of sensitivity
is the global ℓp sensitivity with respect to the cardinality of
the symmetric difference d(D, D′) = |D △D′|:
Definition III.2 (Global ℓp Sensitivity [2]). A function f :
D →Rn has global ℓp sensitivity
∆pf =
max
D,D′∈D,d(D,D′)=1 ∥f(D) −f(D′)∥p.
Throughout this work we shall refer to the ℓ1 sensitivity as
∆f. With access to the global sensitivity of a prediction, both
pure and approximate DP can be satisfied by the following
well-known mechanisms:
Definition III.3 (Laplace (ϵ, 0)-DP Mechanism [2]). For a
function f : D →Rn, the mechanism M(D) = f(D) + η
where η ∼Lap(∆f/ϵ) satisfies pure (ϵ, 0)-differential privacy.
Definition III.4 (Gaussian Mechanism [2]). For a function
f : D →Rn, the mechanism M(D) = f(D) + η where
η ∼N(0, σ2I) and σ ≥
∆2f
ϵ
p
2 ln(1.25/δ) satisfies (ϵ, δ)-
differential privacy for δ ∈(0, 1).
Any mechanism employing the global sensitivity (e.g.,
Definitions III.3 and III.4) is data-independent by nature of ∆f
being defined over all possible neighboring datasets D and D′.
In general, private prediction calibrated to the global sensitivity
incurs utility cost exceeding that of private learning [10].
Though one must be careful to ensure releases remain private,
a tighter privacy analysis can be achieved by considering the
local sensitivity:
Definition III.5 (Local ℓ1 Sensitivity [2]). The local ℓ1
sensitivity of a function f : D →Rn at point x ∈D is
defined as LS(f, x) = maxy:d(x,y)=1 ∥f(x) −f(y)∥1.
As the local sensitivity itself is data-dependent, one cannot
directly calibrate noise to the local sensitivity. However, to
rectify this, Nissim et. al. [12], proposed a smooth upper bound
on this sensitivity with respect to datasets a distance k apart
termed the smooth sensitivity:
Definition III.6 (β-Smooth Sensitivity [12]). The β-smooth
sensitivity of a function f : D →Rn at a point x ∈D
can be defined as SSβ(f, x) = maxk∈N+ e−βkAk(f, x) where
Ak(f, x) := maxy:d(x,y)≤k LS(f, y).
The major advancement of the smooth sensitivity is the
ability to derive associated mechanisms (similar to Definitions
III.3 and III.4) that obtain pure- and approximate-DP. For
example, pure-DP can be achieved by adding Cauchy noise
calibrated to the smooth sensitivity:
Definition III.7 (Cauchy Mechanism [12]). For a function
f : D →Rn, the mechanism M(D) = f(D) + η where
η ∼Cauchy(6 SSβ(f, x)/ϵ) and ∀β ≤(ϵ/6) satisfies (ϵ, 0)-
differential privacy.
Similarly, to satisfy approximate-DP, one can use Laplace
noise calibrated to the smooth sensitivity:
Definition III.8 (Laplace (ϵ, δ)-DP Mechanism [12]). For a
function f : D →Rn, the mechanism M(D) = f(D) + η,
where η ∼Lap(2 SSβ(f, x)/ϵ) and ∀β ≤ϵ/(2 ln(2/δ)) with
δ ∈(0, 1) satisfies (ϵ, δ)-differential privacy.
While Nissim et al. [12] provide a systematic treatment of
admissible noise distributions that yield privacy guarantees
based on smooth sensitivity, we focus our attention only on the
mechanisms outlined in this section, leaving analysis of our
techniques in combination with other mechanisms to future
works.
B. Valid Parameter Space Bounds
Leveraging formal methods to compute the above smooth
sensitivity mechanisms, Sosnin et al. [11], [13] cast the
local sensitivity of a learning algorithm as a reachability
specification that can be verified using abstract interpretation.
Their framework computes the parameter envelopes that bound
the effect of data modifications during training, thus bypassing
the need to optimize over the intractable space of all possible
datasets. Let M(f, θinit, D) denote a gradient-based algorithm
trained on dataset D that returns the final parameters of a


model f, starting from a fixed initialization θinit. The parameter
envelopes computed by Sosnin et al. [11], [13] are termed valid
parameter space bounds:
Definition III.9 (Valid Parameter-Space Bound [11]). For a
nominal dataset D and a distance threshold k, a parameter
envelope Tk = [θk
L, θk
U] is a valid parameter-space bound if it
contains all possible model parameters that result from training
on any dataset ˜D formed by up to k additions, removals or
substitutions from D:
M(f, θinit, ˜D) = ˜θ ∈Tk,
∀˜D s.t. d(D, ˜D) ≤k.
To compute these intervals using abstract interpretation,
Sosnin et al., present Abstract Gradient Training (AGT) which
leverages bound propagation to construct the envelopes. The
algorithm considers batchdx of size b and a per-element gradient
clipping threshold γ. We refer to quantities pertaining to
training on the original, unmodified dataset D as nominal (i.e.,
k = 0). The updates are computed element-wise: AGT aggre-
gates the b−k nominal points’ gradients and accounts for the k
differing points by assuming they produce gradients equal to γ
in the most adversarial direction. In this way, it can isolate all
reachable parameters to produce final, axis-aligned parameter
envelopes Tk = [θk
L, θk
U]. Importantly, this allows the propaga-
tion of valid bounds from parameter to output space, acting
as a proxy for computing local sensitivity in prediction space.
Shortcomings of Prior Approaches: The AGT algorithm
comes with some downsides. In particular, the bounds provided
only apply to private prediction in classification settings. Be-
yond this restrictive setting, the utility of formal-methods-based
privacy guarantees remains an open question. Moreover, we
highlight that the privacy analysis in [13] does not explore the
compatibility of AGT and amplification theorems, thus limiting
the scale of problems that can be studied with their mechanism.
In what follows, we extend the AGT algorithm to regression,
discuss the use of amplification and AGT, and provide the first
algorithms for using bound propagation for private learning.
IV. METHODOLOGY
In this section, we will first introduce the theoretical
underpinnings of our novel method, AGT-R, and analyze when
is has superiority over global sensitivity.We will then introduce
a novel private learning method, Abstract Gradient Sampling
(AGS), which we will similarly prove can be superior to
existing approaches.
A. AGT-R
We begin by recalling the mechanism presented in Sosnin et
al. [11], [13] which first uses AGT to compute valid parameter-
space bounds via bound propagation for distances (adjacency
quantifiers) k ∈K ⊂N+. The AGT mechanism subsequently
employs parameter envelopes {Tk}k∈K associated with the
adjacency quantifier specified by the subscript. Using this
notation, we restate their proposed smooth sensitivity bound:
Theorem IV.1 (Sosnin et al. [11], [13]). Let M(f, θinit, D) = θ,
Tk = [θk
L, θk
U] satisfying Def. III.9, and let f θ(x) denote the
prediction of a binary classifier and 1(·) represent the indicator
function. Additionally let f Tk(x) be 1 when after propagating
the envelope through the model f, the lower bound of the
output envelope satisfies yk
L ≥0.5, and 0 otherwise. Then the
following is an upper-bound on the β-smooth sensitivity:
SSβ
c (fx, D) = max
k∈[N]
h
1

f Tk(x)̸=f M(f,θinit,D)(x)

e−βki
.
Albeit sound, a critical observation about this theorem is that
it only works in classification settings, where ∀y, y′ ∈Y, y̸ =
y′ : d(y, y′) = 1, and fails otherwise, i.e. in regression settings.
We notice that the constraint exists because the indicator
function acts as a sound-bounding function for the output
sensitivity at distance k (Ak in Definition III.6). To extend
this bound to cases where the output space Y is continuous
and unbounded (e.g., Y = R), we proceed to systematically
generalize the sound-bounding function used.
We first define what it means for a function d(x, k) to be
sound-bounding for local sensitivity Ak(f, x) by introducing
the properties it needs to satisfy:
(i)
Ak(f, x) ≤d(x, k), ∀x ∈X, k ∈K
(ii)
d(x, k) ≤∆pf, ∀p ∈N, x ∈X, k ∈K.
We note that the first property enforces soundness, while
the second avoids triviality (i.e., ensures it is lower than the
global sensitivity). For Y = R one can construct such a sound-
bounding function using only an arbitrary, finite number of
envelopes and the mechanism proposed by AGT (further dis-
cussed in § IV-A2). For regression, we begin by assuming that
we have computed valid parameter-space bounds for all values
of k ∈[N], and we construct the sound bounding function.
Firstly, let Bk(D) be the set of all datasets within radius k
of D and allow yk
L := min ˜
D∈Bk(D) f ˜θ(x) ≤minθ′∈Tk f θ′(x)
and let yk
U := max ˜
D∈Bk(D) f ˜θ(x) ≤maxθ′∈Tk f θ′(x). We
define the following sound bounding function for regression:
d(x, k) := max(yk
U −yk+1
L
, yk+1
U
−yk
L). For this d(x, k),
property (i) is satisfied by observing:
A(k)(D) :=
max
˜
D∈Bk(D)
LS(f, ˜D)
≤
max
˜
D∈Bk(D), D⋆∈Bk+1(D)
∥f θ⋆(x) −f
˜θ(x)∥1
≤
max
˜y∈[yk
L, yk
U], y⋆∈[yk+1
L
, yk+1
U
]
∥y⋆−˜y∥1
=
X
i
max

yk+1
U,i −yk
L,i, yk
U,i −yk+1
L,i

.
The first inequality follows because B1( ˜D) ⊆Bk+1(D) and
the second by the soundness of the certified intervals. Property
(ii) is satisfied by propagating k = N to get the universe of
reachable parameters for which:
LSN(f, x) ≤max
θ′∈TN ∥f θ(x) −f θ′(x)∥1 ≤GS(f)
Once a sound-bounding function is established a β-smooth
upper-bound on the smooth sensitivity is given by using the
construction of Nissim et al. [12]. Formally:


Theorem IV.2. Given a model f, data point x ∈X and k ∈N,
let d(x, k) be an AGT-constructed (as above) sound-bounding
function of the local sensitivity Ak(f, x). Then the following
is a β-smooth upper bound on the β-smooth sensitivity of [12]:
SSβ(fx, D) = max
k∈[N]

d(x, k) e−βk
Proof. The first property of the smooth bound proposed by
[12] follows directly by applying property (i) of a sound-
bounding function: d(x, k) ≥Ak(f, x). The second property,
namely β-smoothness, is a direct consequence of the from the
exponential discount factor e−βk and the fact that d(D, k) ≤
d( ˜D, k + 1) for d(D, ˜D) = 1 which is true both when using
exact valid parameter-space bounds and any sound orthotope
overapproximation.
One can observe that by letting d be the indicator function,
this recovers exactly Theorem IV.1 of Sosnin et al. [13]:
Proposition
IV.1.
Let
Y
=
{0, 1}
and
instantiate
the
sound
bounding
function
with
d(x, k)
=
1
 f Tk(x)̸=f M(f,θinit,D)(x)

.
Then,
Theorem
IV.1
can
be recovered and holds: SSβ = SSβ
c .
Thus, sound bounding functions allow us to strictly general-
ize the analysis provided in prior works by following through
with the smooth sensitivity analysis.Using Theorem IV.2 we
can achieve (ϵ, 0) and (ϵ, δ)-DP guarantees are given through
mechanisms in Definition III.7 and III.8, respectively.
Lastly, our formulation and privatization mechanism provide
a finite bound on smooth sensitivity and noise for unbounded
output domains.
Remark IV.1 (SSβ boundedness for unbounded Y). Theo-
rem IV.2 can provide finite sensitivity bounds even for algo-
rithms with a priori infinite global sensitivity (i.e., d(sup Y −
inf Y) = ∞) when d(x, N) = maxθ′∈TN ∥f θ(x)−f θ′(x)∥1 ≤
∞in turn yields a finite smooth sensitivity bound SSβ.
1) Amplification of Generalized AGT Mechanisms: Before
turning to practical computations of generalized sound bound-
ing functions, we remark on the use of amplification with
AGT-based mechanisms.
Let D = (z1, . . . , zN) ∈X N be a fixed-size dataset
equipped with substitution adjacency, and let
I ∼Unif
 {I ⊆[N] : |I| = m}

,
q := m
N ,
where m ≤N is public. Denote the resulting size-m subsample
by DI. For a fixed public query x, let Am( · ; x) denote the
AGT mechanism of Definition III.7, III.4 instantiated on the
randomized dataset of size m, then we have the following
privacy amplification:
Lemma IV.1 (Amplification of AGT mechanisms by sam-
pling without replacement [36]). Suppose that Am
is
(ϵb, δb)-DP under substitution adjacency on X m. Then the
subsampled mechanism AWOR
N,m (D; x)
:=
Am(DI; x) is
(log(1 + q (eϵb −1)) , qδb)-DP under substitution adjacency
on X N.
Equivalently, to obtain a target outer guarantee (ϵ, δ), it
suffices to instantiate the base AGT-R mechanism with
ϵb = log

1 + eϵ −1
q

,
δb = δ
q ,
(1)
where the latter equality assumes δ ≤q. In the pure-DP case,
δ = δb = 0.
Lemma IV.1 which is a direct application of [36, Theorem 9]
allows AGT-R to operate on a single persistent subsample of
m records while providing a privacy guarantee with respect to
the original dataset of size N.
Algorithm 1 AGT-R (Pure ϵ-DP)
1: Input: Model f, initialization θinit, train dataset Dt (|Dt| = N), public
test input x, AGT procedure MAGT, and privacy constants: ϵ, δ, β,
global sensitivity ∆f, and the set of distance radii: K ⊂N+.
2: Output: An (ϵ, 0)-DP prediction on x.
3: θ, [θk
L, θk
U]k∈K ←∀ki ∈K, MAGT(f, θinit, Dt, ki)
4: ∀i ∈[N],
A[i] ←min

∆f, maxθ′∈[θN
L ,θN
U ] ∥fθ′(xi) −fθ(xi)∥1

5: for k in sort(K) do
6:
Ak(f, x) ←maxθ′∈[θk
L,θk
U ] ∥fθ′(xi) −fθ(xi)∥1
7:
for all j ∈[N] s.t., j < k do
8:
A[i] ←min

A[i],
Ak(f, x)

9:
end for
10: end for
11: ∀i ∈[N],
B[i] ←exp(−βi)
12: ∀i ∈[N],
S[i] ←A[i] · B[i]
13: SSβ ←maxk S[k]
14: ˆy ←fθ(x) + η,
η ∼Cauchy

6 SSβ
ϵ

15: return ˆy
2) Tractable Computation via AGT: Algorithm 1 first
trains the model via AGT, yielding nominal parameters θ
and parameter envelopes [θk
L, θk
U]k∈K, where k denotes the
cardinality of the symmetric difference between neighbouring
datasets that parameterizes AGT.
We observe that in Theorem IV.2, K := [N] implying that
one must compute the maximum over all possible symmetric
difference radii (with N-many AGT runs, for example). In fact,
we show that arbitrary K ⊂N bounds Theorem IV.2 as long
as N ∈K. Consider a set K that has at least one “gap” at
some value k, i.e., k ∈[N] ∧k /∈K. A sound upper-bound
in Theorem IV.2 must somehow bound the local sensitivity
at radius k to achieve a valid smooth-sensitivity bound. We
first observe that ∀k′ > k, Ak′(f, x) > Ak(f, x). Thus, if
we observe a value Ak′(f, x) it is sound for every k < k′.
This naturally gives rise to a sound “back-filling” procedure:
∀k′ /∈K define k⋆:= mink∈K k > k′ and then let Ak′ =
Ak⋆. Finally, ensuring that N ∈K allows us to soundly fill
all gaps k′ /∈K. By the same reasoning in Theorem IV.2,
taking the maximum over all k after applying the back-filling
procedure obtains a upper-bound on smooth sensitivity (line
13 of Algorithm 1).
The choice of K naturally induces a trade-off: small
cardinality sets reduce the number of training runs and forward
passes (which grow proportionally with k) but may yield
looser bounds. Denser sets of values in K progressively tighten


the smooth sensitivity at a greater computational cost. To
conclude this analysis, we note that Algorithm 1 covers only
the pure (ϵ, 0)-DP case, but few changes are required to achieve
approximate (ϵ, δ)-DP: ηi on line 14 must be sampled from
Lap( 2 SSβ
ϵ
) with β ≤
ϵ
2 ln(2/δ).
3) Improving Utility of Private Prediction: In this section,
we establish the conditions under which AGT-R can be
(probabilistically) guaranteed to outperform global sensitivity-
based privatization in regression settings. We analyze equivalent
approaches in pure- and approximate-DP, providing closed-form
privacy-utility trade-offs. Proofs of theorems are deferred to
Appendix B-A and B-B.
Pure (ϵ, 0)-DP: The noise distributions that guarantee
(ϵ, 0)-DP are Lap(0; ∆f/ϵ) and Cauchy(0; 6 SSβ(f, x)/ϵ) for
global and smooth sensitivity, respectively. We analyze and
prove the critical conditions that need to be satisfied for
smooth sensitivity privatization to outperform global sensitivity
privatization at a fixed privacy level ϵ. Importantly, we make
this systematic by defining a flexible cost fraction c, which
represents the exact utility improvement multiplier our method
offers, provided the condition below is satisfied.
Theorem IV.3. Consider a regressor f trained on dataset D
performing private prediction at point x and a real constant
c ∈(1, ∞). At a failure probability α (or, equivalently, at
confidence level 1 −α), Cauchy noise with parameter γ =
6SSβ(f, x)/ϵ and β < ϵ/6 provides c-tighter error bounds than
Laplace noise with parameter b = ∆f/ϵ whenever
SSβ(f, x) < ∆f
6c


ln
  1
α

tan

π(1−α)
2


.
Analysis of Utility Trade-offs: The condition in Thm. IV.3 is
a probabilistic certificate of utility improvement, and we make
two observations about it. Firstly, since an exact expression for
SSβ is not available, the left-hand side is in practice replaced
by the upper bound SSβ computed by AGT, which makes the
condition sufficient but conservative. Secondly, as α →0 we
have tan(π(1−α)/2) ∼2/(πα), so the bracketed term decays
as
π
2 α ln(1/α) →0: the critical sensitivity vanishes faster
than the ln(1/α) grows and thus no deterministic guarantee is
attainable. The condition therefore fails when the AGT bounds
are unacceptably large, when the enforced improvement factor
c is unrealistic, or when the desired guarantee approaches
determinism. Although we cannot control the smooth sensitivity
directly, it is possible to simulate over α and c and use AGT-
R only when the ratio between SSβ and ∆f falls below the
resulting critical value. We present this simulation in the left
column of Fig. 1 and analyze it in §VI.
Approximate (ϵ, δ)-DP: We now turn to the Gaussian
mechanism, which, although it offers lighter tails via (ϵ, δ)-DP,
requires δ ≪1/N, making its noise scale prohibitive in
limited-sample regimes. Similarly to before, we derive and
prove a sufficient condition on the smooth sensitivity under
which our smooth sensitivity-based Laplace mechanism
(approximate (ϵ, δ)-DP) yields tighter error bounds than the
Gaussian mechanism.
Theorem IV.4. Consider the regressor f, dataset D, point
x, confidence level 1 −α, and real constant c ∈(1, ∞).
Additionally, consider a fixed failure probability δ ∈(0, 1)
of approximate-DP. Laplace noise with scale parameter
b = 2 SSβ(f, x)/ϵ and β < (ϵ/(2 ln(2/δ))) provides c-
tighter error bounds than Gaussian noise with parameter
σ =
∆2f√
2·ln(1.25/δ)
ϵ
whenever:
SSβ(f, x) < ∆2f
2c


q
2 ln
  1.25
δ

· Φ−1  1 −α
2

ln
  1
α


,
where Φ(·) denotes the standard normal CDF and δ is the
allowed privacy leakage in approximate DP.
Analysis of Utility Trade-offs: The condition in Thm. IV.4 is
again a probabilistic certificate, ∆2f, c, and SSβ playing the
same role as before. The confidence level, however, behaves
differently. Firstly, both quantiles grow as α →0, since
Φ−1(1 −α/2) ∼
p
2 ln(1/α), so the bracketed factor decays
only as
p
2/ ln(1/α) rather than collapsing polynomially. This
reflects the tails involved, as Laplace and Gaussian noise are
both light-tailed, whereas Cauchy noise is not. Secondly, the
factor
p
2 ln(1.25/δ) acts in our favour, since a smaller leakage
δ forces the Gaussian mechanism to inject more noise. In
summary, this condition is markedly more permissive, and
remains satisfiable at confidence levels for which Thm. IV.3
already fails. We report the critical ratio SSβ/∆2f for various
values of α and c at fixed δ in the right column of Figure 1.
V. ABSTRACT GRADIENT SAMPLING
The previous section established AGT-R as a mechanism
for private prediction: given a trained model, we add noise
calibrated to smooth sensitivity in the output space to privatize
individual predictions. We now turn to what is arguably
the more fundamental problem in the ML privacy literature:
private learning—i.e., releasing a model whose parameters
themselves satisfy differential privacy. The gold standard for
private learning is widely considered to be DP-SGD [4],
with improvements such as Rényi DP [21] and the moments
accountant [22], [37]. We show that the smooth sensitivity
framework developed for AGT-R extends naturally to the
parameter space, yielding a novel approach to private learning.
The central observation is that where the learning algorithm
is viewed as a multi-dimensional regression over parameters,
θ, the valid parameter space bounds yield exactly the local
sensitivities used to calibrate noise in AGT-R. In this section,
we begin by directly applying AGT-R to the output of the
learning algorithm (§V-A); we then systematically generalize
this approach into an algorithm we call Abstract Gradient
Sampling (§V-B).
A. Post-Training Privatization
Where the learning algorithm returns a real-valued vector,
θ = M(f, θinit, D), the ℓ1 sensitivity of that vector is given


Figure 1: Feasibility of smooth-sensitivity privatization. Each curve gives the largest sensitivity ratio ρ = SSβ/∆f for
which our smooth-sensitivity mechanism attains a c-times tighter error bound than the global-sensitivity baseline at confidence
1 −α; the region below each curve is feasible. (a) Pure-DP (Thm. IV.3), Cauchy vs. Laplace; black dots mark the peak ratio.
(b) Approx-DP (Thm. IV.4), Laplace vs. Gaussian, for 1 −α > 0.8 and measured against ∆2f.
by the valid parameter space bound with k = 1 i.e., T1 i.e.,
Definition III.5. Moreover, the parameter envelopes produced
by AGT for any k ≥1 maintain the guarantee for that for
any neighboring dataset ˜D with | ˜D △D| ≤k, the parameters
obtained by training on ˜D reside within the bounds. Formally,
we have that if ˜θ = M(f, θinit, ˜D), then by construction, we
have that ˜θ ∈[θk
L, θk
U]. As in the (private prediction) regression
case, the local sensitivity at ˜D compares ˜θ with the parameters
of a neighbor of ˜D, which lie in [θk+1
L
, θk+1
U
], so the sound-
bounding function construction of §IV-A gives:
Ak(fθ, D) =
X
i
max

θk+1
U,i −θk
L,i, θk
U,i −θk+1
L,i

.
It is now clear that Ak(fθ, D) ≥Ak(fθ, D). Thus, applying
the same construction as in Alg. 1, yields a β-smooth upper
bound on the smooth sensitivity:
SSβ(fθ, D) = max
k
e−βk · Ak(fθ, D) ≥SSβ(fθ, D).
Finally, the privatization mechanism follows naturally: indeed,
calibrating Cauchy noise to SSβ(fθ, D) ensures the released
parameters themselves are private, which exactly matches the
guarantee of DP-SGD:
Corollary V.1 (Single-Release AGS). Let f be a model with
parameters θ ∈Θ ⊆Rp, let θinit be a random initialization,
and let θns = M(f, θinit, D) be the parameters obtained after
ns training steps. Let u(β) := SSβ(fθns , D) denote the β-
smooth sensitivity. The release θns
private
=
θns
+ ηu(β),
where ηu(β) ∈Rp has independent coordinates, each with
density:
(C) ηu(β),j ∼Cauchy(6 u/ϵ) ,
β ≤ϵ/(6p),
(L) ηu(β),j ∼Lap(2 u/ϵ) ,
β ≤ϵ/
 2p (1 + 2 ln(2p/δ))

,
satisfies pure-DP (for C) and approx. DP (for L).
Proof. Both noise densities are admissible in the sense of [12,
Def. 2.4], so the claim is [12, Lemma 2.5] with S = u(β)
and α = ϵ/6, resp. α = ϵ/2; the admissibility is proved in
Appendix B-C.
Advanced Composition for Repeated Release: Where we
release the parameters n times along one trajectory, we can
apply advanced composition in order to get tighter privacy
guarantees than basic composition. Formally:
Corollary V.2 (Advanced Composition for Repeated Release).
Suppose that each of the n releases along the trajectory of
Algorithm 2 is obtained by Corollary V.1 at budget (ϵ0, δ0).
Then, for any δac ∈(0, 1), their joint release is

ϵ0
p
2n ln(1/δac) + nϵ0(eϵ0 −1) , nδ0 + δac

-DP.
Proof. Each release is (ϵ0, δ0)-DP by Corollary V.1 and the
releases are adaptively composed along one trajectory, so the
bound is the advanced composition theorem of [31, Thm. III.3].
B. Abstract Gradient Sampling (AGS)
Using AGT-R for post-training privatization bears substantial
similarities with existing private training algorithms: gradients
are clipped to enforce a bounded sensitivity and carefully
calibrated noise is added to privatize the model parameter. In
popular private learning algorithms, however, noise addition is
done at each step of the learning process. In this section, we
generalize post-training privatization to allow the application
of AGT-R privatization at intermediate steps of the learning
algorithm. We term this generalization Abstract Gradient
Sampling.
To make this generalization we define the notion of interme-
diate privatization through “sampling” at step i ∈{1, . . . , ns}:
exactly as in Corollary V.1 but with u(β, i) defining an upper-
bound on the β-smooth sensitivity at step i we can use the
single release mechanism: θi
private = θi + ηu(β,i)While θi
private
can be released with an accompanying privacy guarantee,
we are often only interested in the final learning parameter,


therefore, we must establish how to carry out our private
learning algorithm from an intermediate point. In what follows
we first demonstrate how multiple releases affects the AGT
semantics and how to leverage tight privacy accounting for
multiple releases.
1) Multiple Release and AGT Semantics: The AGT algo-
rithm accounts for dataset sensitivity through the use of abstract
interpretation and formally verified parameter envelopes. Once
a parameter has been released with DP guarantees, however,
the DP mechanism accounts for the dataset sensitivity, and
intuitively the parameter envelopes are no longer necessary.
We make this formal with Lemma V.1:
Lemma V.1 (Envelope Collapse). Sampling collapses certified
envelopes ∀k onto the released point: [θk,i
L , θk,i
U ] = {θi
private}.
Proof. To safely collapse envelopes one must prove two
properties (i) the privacy guarantee is accounted for and (ii)
the AGT semantics are preserved. Satisfaction of (i) follows
directly from Thm. V.1 which gives the DP mechanism.
Satisfaction of (ii) is done by observing that if ∀k, θk
L = θk
U,
then ∀k maxk δ(x, k) = 0 and finally ∀β, SSβ = 0 implying
that the AGT release deterministically reports θi
private. Thus
collapsing all envelopes preserves the privacy guarantee and
maintains valid AGT semantics.
2) Tighter Privacy Accounting for AGS: The final privacy
guarantee for AGS must cover all of its parameter releases,
which can be done with composition:
Theorem V.1 (AGS Sequential Composition). Let S = {i1 <
· · · < im} ⊆{1, . . . , ns} with im = ns be the sampling steps,
partitioning training into windows (ij−1, ij] (with i0 = 0), each
certified by MAGT from the release preceding it. If the release
at step ij is (ϵj, δj)-DP, then θns
private is released with guarantee
Pm
j=1 ϵj, Pm
j=1 δj

-DP.
As with prior sections, we highlight that sequential com-
position is substantially looser the state-of-the-art numerical
composition [38]. We can leverage these results by observing
that for every AGS mechanism (Corollary V.1), M, we can let
δM(ϵ) := inf

δ : M is (ϵ, δ)-DP
	
denote its privacy curve which can be subsequently optimized
by numerical accounting techniques which can substantially
improve the privacy guarantee [38].
3) Statement of the AGS Algorithm: The complete algorithm
we propose, Abstract Gradient Sampling (AGS), can be
found in Algorithm 2. AGS receives a user-defined set of
steps at which sampling should occur, along with the desired
privacy budget for the windows. Then, for each window, AGT
is performed to obtain parameter envelopes and compute the
upper bound on smooth sensitivity, which is subsequently
leveraged to perform the noise addition and privatize the
window’s parameters, as per Theorem V.1. Since the privacy
cost has been paid by sampling, the parameter bounds are
reset (Lemma V.1) and the budget is accounted for through
composition (Theorem V.1). Finally, the algorithm returns a
private set of parameters, along with a total privacy guarantee.
C. Analysis of AGS
The power of AGS lies in the ability to control the moment
of sampling (i.e., privatization). This is a key advantage: indeed,
due to this particularity of our algorithm, it is possible to design
a strategy that only releases parameters when the smooth-
sensitivity-calibrated noise has a lower magnitude than the
noise DP-SGD would accumulate over the same steps. We
investigate this strategy theoretically and provide closed-form
expressions for the conditions that need to be satisfied for AGS
to be preferable to DP-SGD.
Algorithm 2 AGS
1: Input: Dataset D, function f, initialization θinit, sampling steps
set S ⊆{1, . . . , ns −1}∪{ns}, step privacy budgets ϵi, δi, ∀i ∈
S.
2: ϵ ←0, δ ←0
3: θ0
L = θinit = θ0
U
4: θcurr
private = θinit {Window’s private parameter start}
5: for i in S do
6:
[θi
L, θi
U], θi ←MAGT(f, θcurr
private, D, ·)
7:
θcurr
private ←θi + AGS(θi
L, θi
U)
8:
{Paid privacy cost - reset interval}
9:
θi
U = θi
L = θcurr
private
10:
ϵ ←ϵ + ϵi, δ ←δ + δi
11: end for
12: return θcurr
private, ϵ, δ
Utility Analysis - Pure DP: The analysis of the incurred pri-
vacy cost is straightforward via the scale parameter and standard
composition for both Laplace DP-SGD and AGS. However,
utility is considerably difficult to characterize: noise addition in
parameter space affects the per-step quality parameter estimate
non-linearly and additionally, gradient descent counteracts this
effect. Thus, the utility analyses of Theorems IV.3 and IV.4 are
not applicable. While our prior bounds introduced no additional
assumptions on top of those made by Sosnin et. al. [13], in
what follows we will need to reason about training dynamics,
which require introducing additional assumptions. For (ϵ, 0)-DP,
we present below a condition for AGS to outperform Laplace
DP-SGD. The theorem’s proof is deferred to Appendix B-D.
Theorem V.2. Let the loss function L(θ, D) be 1-dimensional,
µ-strongly convex, and L-smooth with a locally constant Hes-
sian across the sp-step window. Consider the DP-SGD parame-
ter update over sp steps with a learning rate η ≤1/L, where the
gradient is perturbed by i.i.d. noise Zs ∼Lap((sp∆f)/ϵ) with
mean zero (so that the final per-window privacy guarantee is
(ϵ, 0)-DP by basic composition). For a user-defined confidence
level α ∈(0, 1), a single AGS update using Cauchy noise
with scale γ = 6 SSβ(f)/ϵ and β < ϵ/6 yields a strictly
tighter parameter space error bound than Laplace DP-SGD


with probability 1 −α whenever:
SSβ(fθ, D) <
sp∆f
3 tan
  π
2 (1 −α)
×
× max
 s
η ln α
2
c µ(ηµ −2), −η ln α
2
c
!
,
where c > 0 is an absolute constant.
Utility Analysis - Approximate DP: We now take the exact
same approach in the approximate DP case, namely Gaussian
DP-SGD versus AGS with Laplace noise calibrated to the
smooth sensitivity. Proof is deferred to Appendix B-E.
Theorem V.3. Consider the regressor f, dataset D, confi-
dence level 1 −α, an absolute constant c > 0 from the
subgaussian Hoeffding inequality, and a fixed failure probability
δ ∈(0, 1) of approximate-DP. Assume the loss L is µ-
strongly convex and L-smooth with a locally constant Hessian
across the sp-step window, and that the step size satisfies
η ≤1/L. Then a single addition of Laplace noise with
scale b = 2 SSβ(f)/ϵ and β < ϵ/(2 ln(2/δ)) (AGS) provides
tighter error bounds than Gaussian DP-SGD with parameter
σ = sp∆2f
p
2 ln(1.25sp/δ)/ϵ (composing to (ϵ, δ)-DP across
the window) in the sense that EL < EG, whenever:
SSβ(fθ, D) <
1
2 ln
  1
α

v
u
u
t16 η s2p(∆2f)2 ln

1.25sp
δ

ln
  2
α

3c µ(2 −ηµ)
,
where SSβ(f, x) is the β-smooth sensitivity and δ is the allowed
privacy leakage in approximate DP.
These theorem and subsequent proofs begin to demonstrate
the core of the interplay between AGS and classical DP-SGD
dynamics. Once we have access to the per-parameter error
bounds, one can bound the total error for the whole set of
parameters, albeit rather loosely, using the triangle inequality,
or extend our approach using the Matrix Bernstein inequality
in Thm. 5.4.1. of [39]. Even having access to only the per-
parameter utility error bounds, the performance degradation
can be easily empirically measured by simply employing bound
propagation techniques, such as IBP [40] or even AGT [13]
itself.
D. Limitations and Future Work
AGS is one of the few algorithms to approach private learning
from the lens of formal methods, and the first to employ
parameter envelopes and frame learning as regression to satisfy
differential privacy. Although performant in multiple scenarios,
as we will demonstrate in §VI, it comes with some limitations,
which we discuss below.
Computationally, it is more expensive to obtain guarantees
due to the fact that AGT costs roughly 4× as much compared
to a nominal training run, and the smooth sensitivity release
requires one such pass per radius of the sensitivity staircase.
Although in practice we require < 10 values for the staircase,
this amounts to an order of magnitude increase in computational
complexity. For tighter parameter envelopes, large batches
significantly help, and so does more exact optimization (LP,
MILP, MIQCP), which additionally increase the cost. Scope-
wise, the noise of a single release grows with the number of
released parameters, since the sensitivities of the individual
coordinates add up in the certificate, so AGS is best suited to
compact models, or to the trainable part of a larger pre-trained
one, rather than to end-to-end training of deep networks. The
parameter envelopes that the certificate is built on also loosen
as they are propagated through non-linear layers, which makes
deep models harder to certify tightly. Regarding the privacy
analysis, the smooth sensitivity mechanism draws less benefit
from the failure probability δ than mechanisms with data-
independent noise such as the Gaussian mechanism, whose
guarantees improve under composition; narrowing this gap
would strengthen AGS under approximate differential privacy.
Finally, each release along the training trajectory is currently
accounted for as a separate mechanism and paid for from the
same budget. A line of recent work shows that when only the
final model is published, and the intermediate models are never
observed, the privacy loss of an iterative algorithm can be far
smaller than this composition suggests; bringing that view to
the certified trajectory of AGS is the direction we find most
promising.
VI. EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we systematically validate the strength of
AGT-R and AGS in a variety of toy and real-world settings.
A. AGT-R
1) Condition Simulations: We start by presenting a brief
analysis of AGT-R from the lens of the conditions derived
in Theorems IV.3 and IV.4. We run simulations to assess at
which ratios between the smooth and global sensitivity (i.e.,
ρ = SSβ/∆pf, p ∈{1, 2}), for increasing confidence levels
1 −α, and (user-chosen) utility improvement constant c, the
conditions hold. Figure 1 shows the simulation: pure (ϵ, 0)-DP
in the left column and approximate (ϵ, δ)-DP in the right.
The graph on the left hand side reveals that, in the best case,
private predictions with Cauchy noise calibrated to the smooth
sensitivity will yield smaller errors than Laplace-calibrated
private predictions at confidence 1 −α ≈0.4 and sensitivity
ratio ρ < 0.117. This essentially means that, in order to
preserve utility, our AGT-based upper bounds on SSβ must be
at least ten times smaller than the global sensitivity. However,
this always holds for unbounded output spaces.
Turning to the approximate (ϵ, δ)-DP setting, we now restrict
the plot to the high-confidence regime 1 −α > 0.8. The
feasibility region is markedly more relaxed: since the reference
is ∆2f ≤∆1f and both mechanisms are light-tailed, the
admissible ratios exceed 1, peaking at ρ ≈1.9 for c = 1. A
ratio ρ > 1 means our bound need not even improve on the
global sensitivity to win, so at c = 1 the Laplace-calibrated
smooth sensitivity is preferable across essentially the whole
range, dropping below unity only past 1 −α ≈0.995. A
detailed analysis, including the constraints on β that make
these curves optimistic ceilings, is deferred to Appendix C-A.


(a) PATE comparison. Error above the non-private one for PATE-R and PATE-AGT-R at their best T, AGT-R on the full data, and AGT-R on
one shard with the amplified budget.
(b) AGT-R ablations. Linear: the concretisation frequency F of AGT against IBP; California: the batch size. Pure DP with the tighter Cauchy
release at β = ϵ/2 (MAE), approximate DP with Laplace at δ = 10−5 (test MSE), global sensitivity in black. Mean over 200 noise trials.
Figure 2: AGT-R on Linear and California under pure (left of each pair) and approximate (right) DP.
2) Real-World Datasets: For AGT-R, we consider two
regression settings. The first is a synthetic linear regression
task (y = 2x + 1 + ξ, 40,000 training points) learned by a
linear model. The second is the California Housing dataset [41]–
[43], comprising 20,640 records with 8 features that predict
median house value, learned by an 8-64-1 ReLU network. We
compare our novel method in the pure and approximate DP
settings with data-independent private prediction, namely the
Laplace and Gaussian mechanisms with global sensitivity. We
additionally use as a baseline PATE [18] with mean aggregation
for regression (which we term PATE-R) and lastly equip each
PATE shard with AGT-R capabilities and coin this technique
PATE-AGT-R. For the two latter private prediction algorithms,
we denote as T the number of shards and report each at its best
T per budget. Lastly, we run AGT-R on a single shard with the
budget amplified by sampling without replacement. Figure 2
reports, for both datasets, the mean absolute error (MAE) under
pure DP and the MSE under approximate DP (δ = 10−5): the
top row compares AGT-R with the baselines above, the bottom
row ablates AGT-R itself. Dataset, mechanism and training
details are given in Appendix E-A.
a) Private prediction baselines (Figure 2a).: Figure 2a
reports the excess error over the non-private prediction, which
keeps arms that reach the non-private floor apart on the log axis;
the raw scale with global sensitivity is Figure 8 (Appendix C-D).
There, across both datasets and settings, private prediction with
global sensitivity ranks last in MAE (pure DP) and MSE
(approximate DP): at ϵ = 1, the best arm’s error is 57 times
(linear) and 6 times (California) lower in pure DP, and five and
three orders of magnitude lower in approximate DP. Because
of the task’s simplicity, in the linear dataset case, AGT-R’s
and PATE’s variants are essentially indistinguishable from a
performance point of view, with one exception. Indeed, at
a low budget (ϵ = 0.1) in approximate DP, AGT-R on the
full data is two orders of magnitude worse in terms of error;
however, through dataset subsampling and amplification, this
gap is quickly closed.
On the California dataset, the differences are more noticeable.
While AGT-R on the full data is the least performant of the four
arms due to full-data training, it still consistently outperforms
data-independent private prediction (Appendix C-D). Notably,
at ϵ = 1 its error is 4.5 times lower in pure DP and over
30 times lower in approximate DP. Interestingly, the most
accurate technique in pure DP is PATE-R, while the winner
in approximate DP is PATE-AGT-R. The explanation for this
is simple: because the Cauchy distribution is heavy-tailed and
each point is the mean over 200 noise trials, the AGT-based
arms tend to sample far-from-mean points more often, which


Figure 3: Privacy–utility trade-offs of AGS for 5-class MNIST (left pair) and IMDB (right pair). AGS releases the trained
parameters once (Cauchy mechanism under pure DP, Laplace under approximate DP, δ = 10−5). Matched DP-SGD is accounted
by basic composition or, under approximate DP, by exact composition of the Gaussian mechanism; optimized DP-SGD is tuned
on a public selection set. On IMDB, the hidden-layer arms replace the logistic head with one hidden layer.
means the utility degradation is more acute. In contrast to
that, the addition of Laplace noise (which has finite second
moments) and the 1/T reduction in sensitivity from averaging
over shards essentially make PATE-AGT-R state-of-the-art, with
test MSE within 0.06 of the non-private one (0.94) at ϵ ≥2.
b) Batch and concretization frequency (Figure 2b).: For
the linear regression ablation we train a linear model with SGD
for 16 steps (batch size 5), and for California Housing a ReLU
MLP (input–64–1) for 330 SGD steps at every batch size, both
with gradient clipping at γ = 0.1; the global sensitivity is the
clipping ceiling of the trajectory (0.64) for linear regression
and the output range (10 standard deviations) for California
Housing.
The reachability problem solved by AGT [13] is solved over
windows (termed concretization frequencies). A key advantage
of our approach to privacy is that it exposes formal method
techniques as explicit tuning knobs. We show that increasing
the concretization frequency from interval bound propagation
to a MILP every F = 16 steps leads to substantially tighter
smooth sensitivity estimates, from about 0.25 to 0.015, giving
a four- to six-fold improvement in utility.
For the California Housing dataset, we ablate the batch
size BS, which is known to influence the AGT algorithm,
up to the full batch (BS = 16,512). As increasing the batch
size tightens the bounds from AGT it should in turn tighten
the smooth sensitivity upper bounds, as well as downstream
utility. Indeed we see that smooth sensitivity and batch size
appear roughly inversely proportional: BS=250 peaks near 6,
BS=4000 near 0.4, while the full batch is nearly flat close to
zero (Appendix C-B).
The critical point we would like to emphasize is that when
compared with global sensitivity, our method is dominant in
approximate DP at every privacy budget, frequency and batch
size, with up to two orders of magnitude lower MSE. In pure
DP, it dominates once the certificate is tight enough (F ≥8
from ϵ = 0.2 on linear regression, BS ≥1000 from ϵ = 1 on
California Housing).
B. AGS
We evaluate AGS’s performance with three distinct datasets:
blobs [44] (two Gaussian clusters in 8 dimensions), MNIST
[45] and the IMDB binary movie sentiment analysis task [46].
We further augment this evaluation, in Appendix D-A, with an
investigation of the behaviour of AGS upon varying the number
of releases (i.e., “sampling” steps) at a fixed privacy budget.
Finally, we benchmark a hybrid DP-SGD+AGS approach on
the SST2 dataset [47] setup of [48] and [49] against DP-LoRA
finetuning.
1) Utility: For the results on the blobs dataset (200 points,
linear hinge-loss classifier), which can be seen in Figure 4,
the parameter envelopes are computed by solving an exact
optimization problem, at different concretization frequencies F
(the number of training steps after which the MILP is solved).
We compare AGS with PATE [18] and matched (i.e., with the
exact same parameters) DP-SGD. Looking at the approximate
DP arm of the figure, there is strong evidence that AGS is
the stronger mechanism: from ϵ = 5 it leads both baselines,
by more than 0.2 in accuracy at ϵ = 20, and approaches
the non-private accuracy of 0.90 at ϵ = 100 whatever the
concretization frequency. In pure DP, the frequency matters:
solving the MILP every 10 steps instead of every step raises
the accuracy at ϵ = 30 from 0.59 to 0.86.
Figure 3 shows how our approach fares in more difficult tasks
from a performance perspective (i.e. task accuracy) compared
to the same baselines as in blobs, with the addition of optimized
DP-SGD, where we use amplification and composition to the
greatest extent in trying to optimize for accuracy. We restrict
MNIST to its first five digits (28,596 private training images),
a multi-class problem on which the parameter envelope has to
bound 45 parameters instead of the 9 of blobs, and on IMDB
we train on 20,000 private reviews embedded by the frozen
all-mpnet-base-v2 sentence encoder [50], [51], the family of
pretrained text encoders that DP text pipelines build on [52],
showing that AGS scales to foundation-model backbones by
certifying only the model trained on top of them. In both


Figure 4: Privacy–utility trade-offs of AGS on blobs. AGS
certifies the parameter envelope with an exact MILP solved
every F training steps and releases the trained parameters
once (Cauchy mechanism under pure DP, Laplace under
approximate DP, δ = 10−5). DP-SGD (matched) uses the
same hyperparameters with basic composition. The dotted line
marks the non-private accuracy. Medians over 100 noise draws.
cases this model is a linear head on 8 PCA components of
the inputs (of the 768-dimensional sentence embeddings on
IMDB). Without fail, this version wins across all our setups,
showing performance on-par with the non-private benchmark
even at ϵ = 1. Matched DP-SGD with accounting does so as
well, in the approximate DP cases. As expected, due to the
heavy-tailedness of the Cauchy distribution, AGS saturates later
in the case of pure DP, reaching accuracies on-par with the
non-private benchmark at ϵ = 15 on 5-class MNIST and ϵ = 5
on IMDB. With the exception of pure DP on MNIST, AGS
consistently outperforms PATE from ϵ = 2, notably showing
> 0.1 gains in accuracy for 1.5 ≤ϵ ≤7 in approximate DP
on IMDB. A similar behaviour is observed when comparing
AGS with basic matched DP-SGD, whereby our method also
wins in pure DP on MNIST from ϵ = 5.
C. Hybrid Approach
We employ the SST-2 dataset [47] to show that AGS
can work well in conjunction with DP-SGD and reaches
performance within 4 points of non-private fine-tuning (94.3%),
which is also on-par with the best full DP-SGD method. As
in §VI-B1, we use the all-mpnet-base-v2 sentence encoder
on the binary sentiment analysis task induced by our dataset,
whose 67,349 training sentences we split into 5,000 held-out
test sentences and 62,349 private training instances, with the
872-sentence validation split as the public set.
The encoder is fine-tuned with DP-LoRA [48] (rank 16)
using DP-SGD in Opacus [24] for 3 epochs at batch size 1,024
to (ϵ1, 5 · 10−6)-DP, and the same model scored with its own
head is the end-to-end DP-LoRA arm. The AGS head is a
logistic head on the PCA-8 projection of the adapted features
Figure 5: Hybrid approach on SST-2: a DP-LoRA fine-tuned
encoder with an AGS head against end-to-end DP-LoRA fine-
tuning and a frozen encoder with an AGS or a DP-SGD head.
Test accuracy against the total budget ϵ = ϵ1 + ϵ2 under
(ϵ, 10−5)-DP (left), a pure-DP head (middle), and the private
set size N at ϵ = 3 effect on accuracy (right).
(p = 18), released once at (ϵ2, 5·10−6)-DP, so that the pipeline
is (ϵ1 + ϵ2, 10−5)-DP; the split and the decision threshold are
chosen on the public set (full details in Appendix E-B). While
most settings tested we find that DP-LoRA is the best approach,
in Figure 5 we do observe that hybrid DP-LoRA+AGS can
outperform both DP-LoRA and AGS alone when the number
of sentences is at 10k.
VII. CONCLUSION
In this work, we proposed two novel differentially private
algorithms — one for private prediction and one for private
learning — grounded in formal verification via Abstract Gradi-
ent Training. Firstly, we formally introduced AGT-R, a novel
private prediction method that guarantees differential privacy in
arbitrarily complex regression settings. We characterized AGT-
R both theoretically and empirically and provided closed-form
conditions for when our formal verification-based upper-bound
on smooth sensitivity yields better utility-privacy trade-offs.
Notably, we tackle private regression without making additional
assumptions on the output space, namely unboundedness or
discreteness. We further leveraged our insights gathered from
AGT-R to pose learning as a private regression problem, and
use the same bounds originating from AGT to devise a novel
private learning algorithm, AGS. We demonstrate theoretically
how AGS satisfies (pure or approximate) differential privacy by
sampling at predefined user-chosen steps from an appropriate
noise distribution. Once again, we provide a closed form
expression for the case when AGS provides better utility
than standard DP-SGD. Lastly, we verify all our claims
through carefully-curated experiments that show both the inner
mechanisms workings of our proposed approaches, as well as
how they compare to prior established DP-ensuring techniques.
REFERENCES
[1] C. Dwork, F. McSherry, K. Nissim, and A. Smith, “Calibrating noise to
sensitivity in private data analysis,” in Theory of cryptography conference.
Springer, 2006, pp. 265–284.
[2] C. Dwork, A. Roth et al., “The algorithmic foundations of differential
privacy,” Foundations and trends® in theoretical computer science, vol. 9,
no. 3–4, pp. 211–407, 2014.


[3] R. Bommasani, D. A. Hudson, E. Adeli, R. Altman, S. Arora, S. von
Arx, M. S. Bernstein, J. Bohg, A. Bosselut, E. Brunskill et al., “On
the opportunities and risks of foundation models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2108.07258, 2021.
[4] M. Abadi, A. Chu, I. Goodfellow, H. B. McMahan, I. Mironov, K. Talwar,
and L. Zhang, “Deep learning with differential privacy,” in Proceedings
of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and communications
security, 2016, pp. 308–318.
[5] J. Zhang, Z. Zhang, X. Xiao, Y. Yang, and M. Winslett, “Functional
mechanism: regression analysis under differential privacy,” Proceedings
of the VLDB Endowment, vol. 5, no. 11, pp. 1364–1375, 2012.
[6] K. Chaudhuri, C. Monteleoni, and A. D. Sarwate, “Differentially private
empirical risk minimization.” Journal of Machine Learning Research,
vol. 12, no. 3, 2011.
[7] F. Tramer and D. Boneh, “Differentially private learning needs better
features (or much more data),” in International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2021.
[8] C. Dwork and V. Feldman, “Privacy-preserving prediction,” in Conference
On Learning Theory.
PMLR, 2018, pp. 1693–1702.
[9] C. A. Choquette-Choo, N. Dullerud, A. Dziedzic, Y. Zhang, S. Jha,
N. Papernot, and X. Wang, “Capc learning: Confidential and private
collaborative learning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.05188, 2021.
[10] L. van der Maaten and A. Hannun, “The trade-offs of private prediction,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.05089, 2020.
[11] M. R. Wicker, P. Sosnin, I. Shilov, A. Janik, M. N. Mueller, Y.-A.
de Montjoye, A. Weller, and C. Tsay, “Certification for differentially pri-
vate prediction in gradient-based training,” in Forty-second International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2025.
[12] K. Nissim, S. Raskhodnikova, and A. Smith, “Smooth sensitivity and
sampling in private data analysis,” in Proceedings of the thirty-ninth
annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing, 2007, pp. 75–84.
[13] P. Sosnin, M. Wicker, J. Collyer, and C. Tsay, “Abstract gradient training:
A unified certification framework for data poisoning, unlearning, and
differential privacy,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.09400, 2025.
[14] C. Tsay, “Relaxation-informed training of neural network surrogate
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.22746, 2026.
[15] L. Béthune, T. Massena, T. Boissin, A. Bellet, F. Mamalet, Y. Prudent,
C. Friedrich, M. Serrurier, and D. Vigouroux, “Dp-sgd without clipping:
The lipschitz neural network way,” in International Conference on
Learning Representations, vol. 2024, 2024, pp. 10 749–10 794.
[16] N. Papernot, S. Song, I. Mironov, A. Raghunathan, K. Talwar, and
Ú. Erlingsson, “Scalable private learning with pate,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1802.08908, 2018.
[17] R. Bassily, O. Thakkar, and A. Guha Thakurta, “Model-agnostic private
learning,” Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 31,
2018.
[18] N. Papernot, M. Abadi, U. Erlingsson, I. Goodfellow, and K. Talwar,
“Semi-supervised knowledge transfer for deep learning from private
training data,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.05755, 2016.
[19] C. Dwork, K. Kenthapadi, F. McSherry, I. Mironov, and M. Naor, “Our
data, ourselves: Privacy via distributed noise generation,” in Annual
international conference on the theory and applications of cryptographic
techniques.
Springer, 2006, pp. 486–503.
[20] T. Steinke and J. Ullman, “Between pure and approximate differential
privacy,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1501.06095, 2015.
[21] I. Mironov, “Rényi differential privacy,” in 2017 IEEE 30th computer
security foundations symposium (CSF).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 263–275.
[22] Y.-X. Wang, B. Balle, and S. P. Kasiviswanathan, “Subsampled rényi
differential privacy and analytical moments accountant,” in The 22nd
international conference on artificial intelligence and statistics.
PMLR,
2019, pp. 1226–1235.
[23] A. Koskela, M. Tobaben, and A. Honkela, “Individual privacy accounting
with gaussian differential privacy,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.15596,
2022.
[24] A. Yousefpour, I. Shilov, A. Sablayrolles, D. Testuggine, K. Prasad,
M. Malek, J. Nguyen, S. Ghosh, A. Bharadwaj, J. Zhao et al., “Opacus:
User-friendly differential privacy library in pytorch,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2109.12298, 2021.
[25] G. Katz, C. Barrett, D. L. Dill, K. Julian, and M. J. Kochenderfer,
“Reluplex: An efficient smt solver for verifying deep neural networks,”
in International conference on computer aided verification.
Springer,
2017, pp. 97–117.
[26] X. Huang, M. Kwiatkowska, S. Wang, and M. Wu, “Safety verification
of deep neural networks,” in International conference on computer aided
verification.
Springer, 2017, pp. 3–29.
[27] M. Wicker, L. Laurenti, A. Patane, and M. Kwiatkowska, “Probabilistic
safety for bayesian neural networks,” in Conference on uncertainty in
artificial intelligence.
PMLR, 2020, pp. 1198–1207.
[28] E. Benussi, A. Patane, M. Wicker, L. Laurenti, and M. Kwiatkowska,
“Individual fairness guarantees for neural networks,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2205.05763, 2022.
[29] M. Wicker, J. Heo, L. Costabello, and A. Weller, “Robust explanation
constraints for neural networks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.08507, 2022.
[30] H. Dang, M. R. Wicker, G. Botterweck, and A. Patane, “Certifiably
quantisation-robust training and inference of neural networks,” in The
28th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics,
2025.
[31] C. Dwork, G. N. Rothblum, and S. Vadhan, “Boosting and differential
privacy,” in 2010 IEEE 51st annual symposium on foundations of
computer science.
IEEE, 2010, pp. 51–60.
[32] M. Bun and T. Steinke, “Concentrated differential privacy: Simplifications,
extensions, and lower bounds,” in Theory of cryptography conference.
Springer, 2016, pp. 635–658.
[33] K. Pan, Y.-S. Ong, M. Gong, H. Li, A. K. Qin, and Y. Gao, “Differential
privacy in deep learning: A literature survey,” Neurocomputing, vol. 589,
p. 127663, 2024.
[34] N. Papernot and T. Steinke, “Hyperparameter tuning with renyi differen-
tial privacy,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.03620, 2021.
[35] A. Koskela and T. D. Kulkarni, “Practical differentially private hyper-
parameter tuning with subsampling,” Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, vol. 36, pp. 28 201–28 225, 2023.
[36] B. Balle, G. Barthe, and M. Gaboardi, “Privacy amplification by
subsampling: Tight analyses via couplings and divergences,” in Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2018.
[37] I. Mironov, K. Talwar, and L. Zhang, “R\’enyi differential privacy of the
sampled gaussian mechanism,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.10530, 2019.
[38] S. Gopi, Y. T. Lee, and L. Wutschitz, “Numerical composition of
differential privacy,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
vol. 34, pp. 11 631–11 642, 2021.
[39] R. Vershynin, “High-dimensional probability,” 2025.
[40] S. Gowal, K. Dvijotham, R. Stanforth, R. Bunel, C. Qin, J. Uesato,
R. Arandjelovic, T. Mann, and P. Kohli, “On the effectiveness of interval
bound propagation for training verifiably robust models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1810.12715, 2018.
[41] R. K. Pace and R. Barry, “Sparse spatial autoregressions,” Statistics &
Probability Letters, vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 291–297, 1997.
[42] Y. Li, “The asymmetric house price dynamics: Evidence from the
california market,” Regional Science and Urban Economics, vol. 52,
pp. 1–12, 2015.
[43] R. K. Pace and R. Barry, “California housing dataset,” 1997, available
via scikit-learn: https://scikit-learn.org/stable/datasets/real_world.html#
california-housing-dataset.
[44] F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel, B. Thirion, O. Grisel,
M. Blondel, P. Prettenhofer, R. Weiss, V. Dubourg, J. Vanderplas,
A. Passos, D. Cournapeau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot, and E. Duchesnay,
“Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python,” Journal of Machine Learning
Research, vol. 12, no. 85, pp. 2825–2830, 2011.
[45] Y. Lecun, “The mnist database of handwritten digits,” http://yann. lecun.
com/exdb/mnist/, 1998.
[46] A. L. Maas, R. E. Daly, P. T. Pham, D. Huang, A. Y. Ng, and C. Potts,
“Learning word vectors for sentiment analysis,” in Proceedings of the 49th
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies.
Association for Computational Linguistics,
2011, pp. 142–150.
[47] R. Socher, A. Perelygin, J. Wu, J. Chuang, C. D. Manning, A. Y. Ng, and
C. Potts, “Recursive deep models for semantic compositionality over a
sentiment treebank,” in Proceedings of the 2013 conference on empirical
methods in natural language processing, 2013, pp. 1631–1642.
[48] D. Yu, S. Naik, A. Backurs, S. Gopi, H. A. Inan, G. Kamath, J. Kulkarni,
Y. T. Lee, A. Manoel, L. Wutschitz et al., “Differentially private fine-
tuning of language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.06500, 2021.
[49] X. Li, F. Tramer, P. Liang, and T. Hashimoto, “Large language models can
be strong differentially private learners,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.05679,
2021.


[50] K. Song, X. Tan, T. Qin, J. Lu, and T.-Y. Liu, “Mpnet: Masked and
permuted pre-training for language understanding,” Advances in neural
information processing systems, vol. 33, pp. 16 857–16 867, 2020.
[51] N. Reimers and I. Gurevych, “Sentence-bert: Sentence embeddings
using siamese bert-networks,” in Proceedings of the 2019 conference
on empirical methods in natural language processing and the 9th
international joint conference on natural language processing (EMNLP-
IJCNLP), 2019, pp. 3982–3992.
[52] C. Xie, Z. Lin, A. Backurs, S. Gopi, D. Yu, H. A. Inan, H. Nori,
H. Jiang, H. Zhang, Y. T. Lee et al., “Differentially private synthetic data
via foundation model apis 2: Text,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.01749,
2024.
[53] B. Becker and R. Kohavi, “Adult,” UCI Machine Learning Repository,
1996, extracted from the 1994 US Census database; 48,842 instances,
14 attributes.
[54] R. Iyengar, J. P. Near, D. Song, O. Thakkar, A. Thakurta, and L. Wang,
“Towards practical differentially private convex optimization,” in 2019
IEEE symposium on security and privacy (SP). IEEE, 2019, pp. 299–316.
[55] R. Redberg, A. Koskela, and Y.-X. Wang, “Improving the privacy and
practicality of objective perturbation for differentially private linear
learners,” Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 36,
pp. 13 819–13 853, 2023.
[56] P. Kairouz, S. Oh, and P. Viswanath, “The composition theorem for
differential privacy,” in International conference on machine learning.
PMLR, 2015, pp. 1376–1385.


APPENDIX A
THEORETICAL DERIVATION OF PARAMETER-SPACE
BOUNDS
To construct the parameter envelope Tk = [θk
L, θk
U] required
by AGT-R, we must bound the gradient updates at each
optimization step. Consider a regression model trained with a
loss function L(·, ·) and a gradient clipping threshold γ. Let
M represent our gradient-based training algorithm and θinit
be a fixed initialization. The valid parameter-space bound Tk
must satisfy:
M(f, θinit, D′) ∈Tk
∀D′ s.t. d(D, D′) ≤k.
At each training iteration on a nominal batch B of size
b, the set of possible descent directions under k arbitrary
dataset additions or removals is bounded using either bound
propagation (IBP [40]) or encoding the problem as an optimiza-
tion (LP/QP/MILP/MIQCP). We bound the perturbed update
∆θ ∈[θk
L, θk
U] element-wise as follows:
∆θL = 1
b

SEMinb−k{δ(i)
L } −kγ1d

,
(2)
∆θU = 1
b

SEMaxb−k{δ(i)
U } + kγ1d

,
(3)
where SEMin and SEMax represent the sum of the element-
wise bottom and top b−k gradient bounds. The terms δ(i)
L and
δ(i)
U are bound propagation- or optimization-derived bounds on
the gradient of the loss L for the i-th sample with respect to the
reachable parameters ˜θ ∈Tk−1. The kγ1d term accounts for
the worst-case scenario where the k differing points produce
gradients exactly at the clipping threshold γ in the adversarial
direction.
By iteratively applying these worst-case updates across the
entire optimization trajectory, we obtain the final envelope Tk.
To compute the upper bound on the smooth sensitivity for a
regression output, we propagate the test query x through the
network over Tk. The maximum output variation provides our
certified bound:
Ak(f, x) = max
˜θ∈Tk
f˜θ(x) −fθ(x)

1 ≥Ak(f, x).
By substituting this upper bound into the AGT-R noise mech-
anism, we maintain (ϵ, δ)-differential privacy while accounting
for worst-case local sensitivity.
APPENDIX B
PROOFS
A. Proof of Theorem IV.3
Proof. Let ZL ∼Lap(b) and ZC ∼Cauchy(γ) with γ, b
defined as above. The worst case error EL at an α quantile
for the Laplace noise is P(|ZL| > EL) ≤α. Expanding
using the CDF and remembering that the Laplace noise is
symmetric about µ = 0, then P(|ZL| > EL) = 2 · P(ZL >
EL) = 2[1 −(1 −(1/2) exp(−EL/b))] = exp(−EL/b) ≤α.
Rearranging, this yields a worst-case EL =
∆f
ϵ ln( 1
α). We
proceed analogously in the case of Cauchy noise: P(|ZC| >
EC) = 2 · P(ZC > EC) = 1 −(2/π) arctan(EC/γ) ≤α.
We thus find an upper bound EC =
6 SSβ
ϵ
tan
  π
2 (1 −α)

.
Enforcing that EC < 1
cEL gives the desired result.
B. Proof of Theorem IV.4
Proof. Let ZG ∼N(0, σ2) with σ defined as above, and ZL ∼
Lap(2 SSβ/ϵ). The worst case error EG at α is P(|ZG| >
EG) ≤α. Since the Gaussian is symmetric around the mean
and by standardizing ZG (i.e., ZG/σ ∼N(0, 1)), we have that
2 · P ((ZG/σ) > (EG/σ)) ≤α and thus 1 −Φ(EG/σ) ≤α/2.
Rearranging, we obtain a worst case EG = σΦ−1(1 −α
2 ).
For Laplace noise, we proceed analogously to Thm. (IV.3):
P(|ZL| > EL) ≤α and setting our condition to be EL < EG.
By symmetry, we have that P(|ZL| > EL) = 2 · P(ZL >
EL) = 2[1 −(1 −(1/2) exp(−EL/b))] = exp(−EL/b) ≤
α. Once again, rearranging, we obtain a worst case EL =
b ln( 1
α) = 2 SSβ
ϵ
ln( 1
α). We enforce EL < 1
cEG to obtain the
final result.
C. Proof of Corollary V.1
Recall [12, Def. 2.4]: a density h on Rp is (α, β)-admissible
if, for all ∆with ∥∆∥1 ≤α (the norm in which [12] define
local sensitivity), all |λ| ≤β and all measurable S, Pr[Z ∈
S] ≤eϵ/2 Pr[Z ∈S + ∆] + δ/2 (sliding) and Pr[Z ∈S] ≤
eϵ/2 Pr[Z ∈eλS] + δ/2 (dilation), where Z ∼h.
By [12, Lemma 2.5], θns + (u/α) Z is then (ϵ, δ)-
indistinguishable whenever u is a β-smooth upper bound on
the ℓ1 local sensitivity of θns, which u(β) is by construction.
It therefore suffices to show that h(z) = Qp
j=1 h1(zj) is
(ϵ/6, ϵ/(6p))-admissible with δ = 0 for h1(z) = 1/(π(1+z2)),
and (ϵ/2, ϵ/(2p(1 + 2 ln(2p/δ))))-admissible for h1(z) =
1
2e−|z|; the scales u/α are then 6u/ϵ and 2u/ϵ. Both properties
follow from a bound on the log-density ratio, which is a sum
over coordinates because h is a product: a ratio at most eϵ/2
on a set B with Pr[Z /∈B] ≤δ/2 integrates to the required
inequality.
Sliding. | d
dz ln h1| ≤1 for both densities ( 2|z|
1+z2 ≤1, resp.
1), so ln h(z) −ln h(z + ∆) ≤P
j |∆j| = ∥∆∥1 ≤α ≤ϵ/2
for every z.
Dilation. The density of e−λZ is epλh(eλz), so the log
ratio is Pp
j=1

ln h1(zj) −ln h1(eλzj) −λ

. (C) The j-th
term is gj(λ) −gj(0) −λ with gj(λ) = ln(1 + z2
j e2λ) and
g′
j ∈[0, 2), hence at most 3|λ| ≤3β in absolute value; the
sum is at most 3pβ = ϵ/2 for every z, so δ = 0. (L) The j-th
term is |zj|(eλ −1) −λ ≤β(1 + 2|zj|), using eβ −1 ≤2β
for β ≤1 (which holds for every ϵ ≤2p). Under h the
|zj| are i.i.d. Exp(1), so B = {maxj |zj| ≤ln(2p/δ)} has
Pr[Z /∈B] ≤p · δ/(2p) = δ/2 by a union bound, and on B
the sum is at most pβ (1 + 2 ln(2p/δ)) = ϵ/2.
D. Proof of Theorem V.2
We start by computing a bound on the error term in the case
of Laplace DP-SGD (which we will refer to, alternatively, as


noisy SGD). The clean and noisy updates are:
θt = θt−1 −η ∂θt−1L(θ, D)
˜θt = ˜θt−1 −η

∂˜θt−1L(˜θ, D) + Zt

,
Zt ∼Lap
sp∆f
ϵ

,
yielding the error term et = ˜θt −θt:
et = (˜θt−1−θt−1)−η

∂˜θt−1L(˜θ, D) −∂θt−1L(θ, D)

−ηZt.
Noting that et−1 = ˜θt−1 −θt−1, we expand the gradient of
the loss function with respect to θt−1 at ˜θt−1 using Taylor’s
theorem with the Lagrange remainder to obtain:
∂θt−1L(θ, D) = ∂˜θt−1L(˜θ, D)
+ ∂2
˜θt−1L(˜θ, D)(θt−1 −˜θt−1)
+ O

∥θt−1 −˜θt−1∥2
.
Rearranging, dropping the higher-order terms and noting that
˜θt−1 −θt−1 = et−1, we obtain
∂˜θt−1L(˜θ, D) −∂θt−1L(θ, D) = ∂2
˜θt−1L(˜θ, D)et−1.
Substituting this back, the recursive error term is
et ≈et−1 −η∂2
˜θt−1L(˜θ, D)et−1 −ηZt
=

1 −η∂2
˜θt−1L(˜θ, D)

et−1 −ηZt.
Iteratively expanding the provided expression, we obtain the
sp-window error term
esp = −η
 sp
X
s=1
Zs ·
sp
Y
r=s+1
(1 −η hr)
!
,
whereby we denoted by hr (in the vein of a ‘’Hessian’‘)
the second derivative of the loss function ∂2
˜θr−1L(˜θ, D) with
respect to the noisy parameter. We take e0 = 0, so that the
first injected noise is Z1. Taking the (Euclidean) 1-norm of the
error term (i.e. absolute value, since we are in 1 dimension)
we have that
|esp| =

sp
X
s=1
Zs · (−η)
sp
Y
r=s+1
(1 −η hr)
 .
Let us, for now, denote as
=
(−η) Qsp
r=s+1 (1 −η hr),
a = (a1, . . . , asp) and analyze
Psp
s=1 asZs
 in isolation. In
particular, notice that the Laplace distribution is a subexpo-
nential distribution and note the subexponential version of the
Bernstein inequality in Theorem 2.9.1. of [39]. We assume the
curvature is (locally) constant across the window, i.e. hr ≡h
for r ∈{1, . . . , sp}, consistent with the first-order Taylor
approximation employed above. Consequently the coefficients
as are deterministic and independent of the noise variables
{Zs}, which is precisely the condition required to apply the
weighted subexponential Bernstein inequality (Corollary 2.9.2
of [39]) to P
s asZs. Using Corollary 2.9.2. of the same
source [39], namely the weighted version of the subexponential
Bernstein inequality, we obtain:
P

|esp| ≥EL
	
= P
(
sp
X
s=1
asZs
 ≥EL
)
≤2 exp

−c min

E2
L
K2∥a∥2
2
,
EL
K∥a∥∞

,
where c > 0 is an absolute constant and K = maxs ∥Zs∥ψ1,
with ∥· ∥ψ1 the subexponential norm (i.e. ∥Z∥ψ1 = inf{K >
0 : E[exp(|Z|/K)] ≤2}). Since Zs are all i.i.d. Laplace with
mean 0 and scale parameter b = (sp∆f)/ϵ, then ∀s : K =
∥Zs∥ψ1, which can easily be computed as follows:
E[exp(|Zs|/K)] =
Z
R
exp
|z|
k
 1
2b exp
−|z|
b

dz
= 1
b
Z ∞
0
exp

−z k −b
bk

dz
=
k
b −k exp

−z k −b
bk
 
∞
0
=
k
k −b,
where we have enforced in the second equality that k > b
and flipped the sign of z, otherwise the integral would not
converge. The expression is bounded by 2 when ∥Zs∥ψ1 =
2b = 2(sp∆f)/ϵ.
We now compute ∥a∥2
2 and ∥a∥∞. Firstly, we remind
the reader that we have assumed µ-strong convexity and L-
smoothness, thus µ ≤hr ≤L, and we take the step size
η ≤1/L so that 0 ≤1 −ηhr ≤1 −ηµ. Therefore, |as| ≤
η(1 −ηµ)sp−s and ∥a∥∞= maxs |as| ≤η(1 −ηµ)0 = η (i.e.
maximization happens when s = sp).
We bound the 2-norm in a similar way: ∥a∥2
2 = P
s a2
s ≤
η2 Psp
s=1(1−ηµ)2(sp−s). The latter is a geometric progression
with ratio r = (1 −ηµ)2, thus ∥a∥2
2 ≤η2 1−(1−ηµ)2sp
1−(1−ηµ)2
≤
η2
1−(1−ηµ)2 =
η
µ(2−ηµ). The last inequality follows since (1 −
ηµ)2sp ≥0, so dropping it only increases the numerator, and
the final equality uses 1 −(1 −ηµ)2 = ηµ(2 −ηµ).
Substituting K = 2(sp∆f)/ϵ alongside our computed norms
into the subexponential Bernstein inequality
P

|esp| ≥EL
	
≤2 exp
h
−c ·
· min
ϵ2E2
Lµ(2 −ηµ)
4η(sp∆f)2
,
ϵEL
2ηsp∆f
 i
.
To follow the same analysis as in Thm. IV.3, we express the
error condition EL in terms of a user-defined confidence α.
Let us name the first argument in the minimum as A and
the second as B; then the worst case error at an α quantile
is: 2 exp(−c min(A, B)) ≤α. This results in min(A, B) ≥
−ln(α/2)
c
, so A ≥−ln(α/2)
c
and B ≥−ln(α/2)
c
simultaneously.
We now solve for the smallest EL satisfying each argument


of the minimizer, naming EL,1 the solution w.r.t. A and EL,2
the solution w.r.t. B, and obtain:
EL,1 =
s
4(sp∆f)2η
ϵ2cµ(ηµ −2) ln α
2 and EL,2 = −2ηsp∆f ln α
2
ϵc
.
Since both constraints must hold simultaneously, the worst-case
error is the larger of the two, i.e. EL = max(EL,1, EL,2). The
error term in the Cauchy case is exactly as in the proof of
Thm IV.3:
EC = 6 SSβ
ϵ
tan
π
2 (1 −α)

.
Enforcing EC < EL yields the required conditions under
which AGS dominates Laplace DP-SGD.
E. Proof of Theorem V.3
We proceed exactly as in the proof of Thm. V.2, the only
difference being that we now perturb the clean update with
Gaussian noise and compare against a one-step addition of
Laplace noise calibrated to smooth sensitivity (i.e., we now
find ourselves in the Approximate DP case). The clean and
noisy updates are:
θt = θt−1 −η ∂θt−1L(θ, D)
˜θt = ˜θt−1 −η

∂˜θt−1L(˜θ, D) + Zt

,
Zt ∼N(0, σ2),
where σ = sp∆2f
ϵ
p
2 ln(1.25sp/δ) is the noise scale of the
Gaussian mechanism run at the per-step budget (ϵ/sp, δ/sp),
so that by basic composition the sp-step window costs (ϵ, δ)
in total, matching the single AGS release. Since the Taylor
expansion of the gradient and the subsequent unrolling of the
recursion are identical to the Laplace case, we omit them here
and pick up directly at the sp-window error term:
esp = −η
 sp
X
s=1
Zs ·
sp
Y
r=s+1
(1 −η hr)
!
,
where, as before, hr denotes the ‘’Hessian’‘ ∂2
˜θr−1L(˜θ, D).
Reusing the notation as = (−η) Qsp
r=s+1 (1 −η hr) and a =
(a1, . . . , asp), we once again analyze
Psp
s=1 asZs
 in isolation.
As in the Laplace case, we assume the curvature is locally
constant across the window (i.e. hr ≡h), so that the weights
as are deterministic and independent of the noise {Zs}, as
required by the concentration inequality we are about to invoke.
In contrast to the Laplace case, however, the Gaussian
distribution is subgaussian, so we appeal to the general
Hoeffding inequality for subgaussian random variables in
Theorem 2.7.3 of [39]. Before doing so, we remind the
reader that a constant a multiplied with a Gaussian is again
Gaussian, namely a · N(m, σ2) ∼N(am, a2σ2) (this follows
immediately by inspecting the moment generating function).
Hence each weighted term is itself a centered Gaussian,
Z′
s := asZs ∼N
 
0, η2
sp
Y
r=s+1
(1 −ηhr)2 σ2
!
,
and the Z′
s are independent, centered and subgaussian, exactly
the regime in which the inequality applies. We obtain:
P

|esp| ≥EG
	
= P
(
sp
X
s=1
asZs
 ≥EG
)
≤2 exp
 
−
c E2
G
Psp
s=1 ∥Z′s∥2
ψ2
!
,
where c > 0 is an absolute constant and ∥·∥ψ2 denotes the sub-
gaussian norm (i.e. ∥X∥ψ2 = inf{t > 0 : E[exp(X2/t2)] ≤
2}). The subgaussian norm ∥· ∥ψ2 of a centered Gaussian can
be computed exactly as in the previous proof (mirroring the
ψ1-norm derivation for Laplace); by [39], for X ∼N(0, σ2)
it equals ∥X∥ψ2 = σ
p
8/3. By the absolute homogeneity of
the norm, it follows that ∥Z′
s∥ψ2 = |as| σ
p
8/3, and therefore
Psp
s=1 ∥Z′
s∥2
ψ2 = 8
3σ2∥a∥2
2.
We now note that ∥a∥2
2 is precisely the quantity we bounded
in the proof of Thm. V.2, namely ∥a∥2
2 ≤
η
µ(2−ηµ) (which
holds under µ-strong convexity, L-smoothness and the step-size
condition η ≤1/L). Substituting our computed norm alongside
σ2 =

2s2
p(∆2f)2 ln(1.25sp/δ)

/ϵ2 into the inequality yields:
P

|esp| ≥EG
	
≤2 exp

−
3c E2
G µ(2 −ηµ) ϵ2
16 η s2p(∆2f)2 ln(1.25sp/δ)

.
To follow the same analysis as before, we express the error EG
in terms of a user-defined confidence α. Setting the probability
bound to α and solving for EG gives the (single-regime) worst-
case error
EG =
v
u
u
t16 η s2p(∆2f)2 ln

1.25sp
δ

ln
  2
α

3c µ(2 −ηµ) ϵ2
.
The error of AGS in this setting stems from a single addition
of Laplace noise calibrated to the β-smooth sensitivity (with
β < ϵ/(2 ln(2/δ)) ensuring approximate (ϵ, δ)-DP), exactly as
in the proof of Thm. IV.4:
EL = 2 SSβ
ϵ
ln
 1
α

.
Enforcing EL < EG and solving for the smooth sensitivity
yields the required conditions under which Laplace AGS
dominates Gaussian DP-SGD:
SSβ(fθ, D) <
1
2 ln
  1
α

v
u
u
t16 η s2p(∆2f)2 ln

1.25sp
δ

ln
  2
α

3c µ(2 −ηµ)
,
APPENDIX C
AGT-R ABLATIONS
In this section we validate the AGT-R certificate on its own.
We first extend the analysis of the feasibility conditions of
Figure 1, then show the certificates behind the two ablations of
the main text, the concretization frequency on linear regression
and the batch size on California Housing. We then present a


Figure 6: Shard ablation on the linear regression task with 4×103 training points, under pure DP. MAE against the number of
shards T at fixed dataset size, one line per budget ϵ ∈[0.1, 10], for PATE-R (Laplace noise on global sensitivity), PATE-AGT-R
(Cauchy noise on the shard-wise smooth sensitivity, β = ϵ/2) and AGT-R on a single shard of N/T points with the amplified
budget ϵb; dashed: the noise-free PATE mean.
study that ablates the number of shards in PATE-R and PATE-
AGT-R and reveals its effect on performance, and lastly repeat
the comparison of Figure 2a on the raw error scale together
with the global-sensitivity baselines, thus tying directly into
our main experimental results.
A. Condition Simulations: Further Analysis
We complement the discussion of Figure 1 in the main
text with a finer-grained analysis of the simulated conditions,
starting with the pure (ϵ, 0)-DP column. Additionally, we can
observe that with high confidence (i.e. > 90%), having a ratio
ρ ≈0.01, we can consistently achieve utility multipliers greater
than 1. A trend that additionally arises is that as c increases,
the gaps between consecutive c decrease, meaning a smaller
ratio consistently achieves c ≫1 better utility.
We now turn to the finer details of the approximate (ϵ, δ)-
DP column, where the admissible ratios peak at ρ ≈1.9 for
c = 1. These largest values, however, are attained at 1 −
α ≈0.8, an operating point of little practical interest; at the
more desirable 1 −α = 0.98 the admissible ratio falls to
1.12–1.44, still favourable but far less generous. A further
important observation is that our analysis imposes conditions
on β and this constraint is stricter than in the pure-DP case:
whereas Cauchy requires only β < ϵ/6, the Laplace mechanism
enforces β ≤
ϵ
2 ln(2/δ), roughly four times tighter at δ = 10−5.
Additionally, as detailed in §IV-A, AGT-R produces strict upper-
bounds on local sensitivity and is strictly over-approximate.
Both these details force a practically larger SSβ, or equivalently
a larger ϵ to remain valid, so the displayed curves are optimistic
ceilings only attainable theoretically. Lastly, the diminishing
returns in c reappear: c = 2 and c = 3 lie below unity across
the entire window, peaking at ρ ≈0.96 and 0.64.
B. Certificates of the AGT-R Ablations
Figure 7 visualizes the SSβ bounding algorithm behind the
ablations of Figure 2b, averaged over test inputs. The dashed
line (left y-axis) represents the certified bound on the local
sensitivity ¯A(x, k) as the number of substitutions k increases,
while the solid line (right y-axis) tracks the induced upper
bound on the smooth sensitivity, ¯A(x, k) e−βk at β = 1/2 (the
β of the pure-DP release at ϵ = 1), with stars marking its
maximum SSβ.
Figure 7: Cross-radius certificates of the AGT-R ablations
(left: concretization frequency on linear regression; right: batch
size on California Housing). Dashed, left axis: the certified
local-sensitivity bound ¯A(x, k) averaged over test inputs; solid,
right axis: the smooth-sensitivity bound at β = 1/2, with its
maximum starred; dotted: the global-sensitivity ceiling.
Beyond the largest computed k the certificate falls back to
the global sensitivity (dotted), which is the clipping ceiling of
the trajectory (0.64) for linear regression and the output range
(10 standard deviations) for California Housing; the released
prediction is clipped to this range. The staircases show what
the trade-off panels only show indirectly: a looser certificate
(IBP, small F; small BS) saturates at the ceiling within a few
substitutions, so the exponential discount has little to act on
and SSβ peaks at k = 1 close to the ceiling, whereas a tight
certificate (large F; full batch) stays well below the ceiling


for all k ≤20 and SSβ peaks at k = 2 an order of magnitude
lower. This is the mechanism behind the 0.25 →0.015 and
the 6 →0.08 reductions in SSβ reported in the main text.
C. Number of shards (T)
This ablation uses the Linear dataset and exactly the same
model and hyperparameters as in §VI-A, with the exception of
the number of training points, which is now 4×103 instead of
4×104. Figure 6 shows the MAE of PATE-R, PATE-AGT-R and
AGT-R, the latter being restricted to one shard for ϵ ranging
from 0.1 to 10, across an increasing number of shards, all
while the dataset size is fixed.
Figure 8: The comparison of Figure 2a on the raw scale with
global sensitivity (grey, dotted). MAE under pure DP and test
MSE under approximate DP (δ = 10−5), each point the mean
over 200 noise draws.
D. Private Prediction Baselines with Global Sensitivity
Figure 8 repeats Figure 2a on the raw error scale and with
the global-sensitivity arm (Laplace in pure DP, Gaussian in
approximate DP, both on the full data). On the excess scale of
the main text this arm would sit one to five orders of magnitude
above every other, which is why it is shown here. Accordingly,
the y-axes report the full error of the private release, MAE
under pure DP and MSE under approximate DP, rather than
the excess over the non-private prediction; the non-private floor
(0.079 MAE and 0.0098 MSE on linear regression, 0.72 MAE
and 0.94 MSE on California Housing) is where the AGT-based
arms flatten out at large ϵ, and subtracting it recovers Figure 2a.
APPENDIX D
AGS ABLATIONS
A. Sampling Ablation
Intuitively, in standard PATE, MAE decreases as long as a
single shard holds enough data for significant overlap without
vote dilution, which also improves privacy by amplification.
This is confirmed experimentally when looking at the leftmost
subfigure and happens at T = 512, i.e. ≈8 points per shard,
after which point the MAE starts increasing. The story changes
somewhat in the case of PATE-AGT-R: the error starts to get
larger earlier and the threshold at which utility starts decreasing
is highly dependant on ϵ. For example, MAE peaks at T = 8
for ϵ = 0.2; in contrast the same peak is observed at T = 64
when ϵ = 2. This indicates that under a certain specified
privacy budget, noise calibrated to the parameter envelopes
starts significantly affecting predictions. Whereas this budget is
quickly reached as a function of the number of shards when the
total privacy budget is already low, when this budget increases,
the behaviour is observed at larger T. In the case of the first,
the utility degradation is significant, while in the case of the
latter it is not as visible due to the effect of mean aggregation.
The rightmost panel of the figure can easily be interpreted: at
128 shards, meaning ≈31 datapoints per shard, AGT-R doesn’t
have enough data to compute tight parameter envelopes, which
is why the test MAE skyrockets, regardless of total privacy
budgets. Lower total privacy budgets start, expectedly, at a
higher MAE due to noise causing utility degradation.
Figure 9: Ablation of the number of releases (i.e., sampling
steps) at different, fixed total privacy budgets on the UCI
Census Income Dataset [53]. Left panel: test accuracy against
the number of releases n under (ϵ, 10−5)-DP, with the per-
release budget set by optimal composition (filled) or basic
composition (hollow), against the non-private accuracy (band)
and the majority-class rate (dashed). Middle: the budget ϵ0
each release receives under optimal composition (solid) against
the basic split ϵ/n (dashed). Right: the ratio of the two, i.e.
the gain from accounting.
As previously mentioned in the beginning of §VI-B, we
perform an ablation on the number of releases or ‘’sampling
steps’‘ (i.e., the addition of noise and collapse of the parameter
envelope) to observe the effect of composition on utility
and privacy. We employ the UCI Census Income Dataset
[53], which has been used extensively to validate algorithmic
techniques in DP literature [6], [54], [55].


The dataset consists of 30,222 private records. We train
a logistic head on the first d = 16 PCA components with
300 steps of full-batch gradient descent split evenly into n ∈
{20, . . . , 28} releases, each certified from the previous noisy
release. We perform each ablation for a fixed total (approximate
DP) privacy budget ϵ ∈{5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 150}, δ = 10−5,
split across releases either evenly (ϵ/n each) or by optimal
composition [56].
Figure 9 shows the results. In the left panel, as the privacy
budget increases, it takes more sampling steps for the test
accuracy to decrease from ≈82% to below ≈78%, which
happens at 4 releases for ϵ = 10, at 16 releases for ϵ = 50 and
at 64 releases for ϵ = 150, where 32 releases still reach 80.9%.
A larger total budget thus buys more free releases: the number
of releases within one point of the non-private accuracy doubles
from 8 at ϵ = 50 to 16 at ϵ = 150. By optimal composition, we
only start gaining a larger ϵ per step (i.e., less noise injected) at
the same cost δ when n ≥32 (number of releases) for ϵ ≤20
and when n ≥27 for ϵ ≥100, in which case the gains (up
to 3.5× at ϵ = 5, n = 28) can be observed in the rightmost
panel and the corresponding optimal ϵ in the middle panel.
At ϵ ∈{100, 150}, this first shows in the accuracy (75.0% vs.
74.8% and 75.3% vs. 74.8% at n = 27), although both remain
near the majority-class rate (74.6%).
APPENDIX E
HYPERPARAMETERS
A. AGT-R
Linear
California
Data
Train / test points
40,000 / 2,000
16,512 / 4,128
Output range (GS)
[−6, 6]
10 std. units
Baselines (Fig. 2a)
Model
y = wx + b
8-64-1 ReLU
Steps / lr / γ
20 / 0.3 / 1
330 / 0.01 / 0.1
Shards T
20, . . . , 210
20, . . . , 26
Certificate
exact per step
AGT [13]
Substitutions k
≤min(1024, |shard|)
≤28
Ablations (Fig. 2b)
Steps / lr / γ
16 (batch 5) / 0.1 / 0.1
330 / 0.01 / 0.1
Ablated
F ∈{IBP, 1, . . . , 16}
BS ∈{250, . . . , 16,512}
Release (both datasets)
Pure DP: Cauchy(SSβ/(ϵ −β)), β = ϵ/2; MAE of the clipped release
Approx. DP: Laplace(2 SSβ/ϵ), β = ϵ/(2 ln(2/δ)), δ = 10−5; MSE
ϵ ∈{0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10}; 200 noise draws per point
WOR arm: ϵb = ln(1 + T (eϵ −1)), δb = T δ on a shard of N/T
Table I: AGT-R settings for Figure 2. Training is full-
batch (full-shard) clipped gradient descent. PATE-R adds
Laplace(GS/(Tϵ)) (Gaussian in approximate DP) to the shard
mean; PATE-AGT-R calibrates to
1
T maxi SSβ
i .
B. AGS
Blobs
MNIST 0–4
IMDB
Data
Private / public / test
200 / – / 4k
28.6k / 2k / 5.1k
20k / 5k / 25k
Features
R8, 2 Gaussians
PCA-8 (pixels)
PCA-8 (mpnet)
Model and training
Head (P )
linear (9)
logistic (45)
logistic (18)
Training
clipped SGD
contractive clipped GD, full batch
Steps / lr
200 (b 20) / 0.5
1,000 / 2
1,000 / 2
Clip γ / contr. λ
0.05 / –
0.02 / 0.6
0.01 / 0.6
Certificate
Bound propagation
MILP,
F ∈{1, 2, 5, 10}
CROWN
CROWN
Substitutions k
{1, 2, 4, 8}
1, . . . , 4096, N
1, . . . , 512, N
Release (Corollary V.1)
Pure DP: independent Cauchy(2u/ϵ), β = ϵ/(2P )
Approx. DP: independent Laplace(2u/ϵ), Gamma-tail β, δ = 10−5
Budgets ϵ / draws
1–100 / 101
1–100 / 41
1–100 / 41
Allocation
fixed (ℓ1)
ℓ1 or anisotropic, chosen on public set
Table II: AGS settings for Figures 4 and 3. P is the number
of released parameters and u the smooth sensitivity of the ℓ1
cross-radius certificate. Public sets: MNIST 1,000 PATE pool
and 1,000 selection; IMDB 2,500 and 2,500. Baselines are
tuned on the same public sets.
SST-2 (hybrid)
Data
Private / public / test
62,349 / 872 (GLUE validation) / 5,000
Features
PCA-8 of the DP-LoRA all-mpnet-base-v2 embedding
Encoder (DP-LoRA, (ϵ1, 5 · 10−6)-DP)
Adapter
rank 16 on the q, v projections of every layer
DP-SGD (Opacus)
batch 1,024, 3 epochs, clip 1, lr 10−3, PRV accountant
Head (AGS, (ϵ2, 5 · 10−6)-DP)
Head (P ) / training
logistic (18) / contractive clipped GD, full batch
Steps / lr / γ / λ
150 / 2 / 0.05 / 0.3
Certificate
CROWN; k = 1, . . . , 512, N
Release
as Table II; 41 draws
Pipeline
Total ϵ = ϵ1 + ϵ2
0.5, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8 at δ = 10−5
Chosen on public set
the split (ϵ1, ϵ2), the allocation, the threshold
Table III: Settings of the SST-2 hybrid (Figure 5). The end-
to-end arm is the DP-LoRA model scored with its own head;
the frozen-encoder arms use the same head on the un-adapted
embedding.
