Neuro-Symbolic Predicate Learning for Semantic Safe Robot Control
Zihan Ye 1,2,5∗, Jiayi Liu1∗, Puze Liu7†, Jiayun Li1,4,5,
Georgia Chalvatzaki1,4,5,8, Jan Peters1,3,5,6,8, Kristian Kersting1,2,5,6
1TU Darmstadt, 2AIML group, 3IAS group, 4PEARL group,
5Hessian AI, 6DFKI, 7Tongji University 8Robotics Institute Germany
zihan.ye@tu-darmstadt.de, puze_liu@tongji.edu.cn
Abstract
As robots are increasinglydeployed in everydayenvironments,
ensuring their safety has become a central challenge. Existing
methods often encode safety requirements as opaque math-
ematical/logical formulations or dense cost functions. While
effective in specific tasks, they remain difficult to interpret,
tightly coupled to individual tasks, and offer limited insight
into why a robot action is considered safe or unsafe. To address
this limitation, we propose “Neuro-Symbolic Predicate Learn-
ing for Semantic Safe Robot Control” (NEUPRO), which
leverages a differentiable reasoner that can learn reusable
safety representations from human-specified safety knowl-
edge. NEUPRO allows practitioners to express task-related
safety requirements as transparent symbolic rules, while en-
abling gradients to propagate through these rules to a fea-
ture extractor that maps raw observations to safety-relevant
concepts. As a result, the learned feature extractor is (softly)
grounded in human-understandable semantics, supports trans-
parent constraint evaluation, and is transferable across tasks.
By coupling interpretability with differentiability, NEUPRO
moves beyond opaque cost design toward reusable safety rea-
soning. To evaluate NEUPRO’s capability, we collect and re-
lease REASON, the first real robot benchmark dataset for
interpretable robot safety specification. Experiments on REA-
SON show that NEUPRO learns safety-critical features that
generalize across tasks, mitigate the interpretability limita-
tions of conventional black-box cost formulations, and provide
explicit explanations of safety violation.
1
Introduction
As robots are increasingly expected to operate in complex,
unstructured environments, ensuring safety has shifted from
a desirable attribute to a fundamental requirement (Garcıa
and Fernández 2015; Achiam et al. 2017; Wachi, Shen, and
Sui 2024; Brunke et al. 2022; Zhao et al. 2023). Whether
navigating around humans (Lasota, Fong, and Shah 2017)
or manipulating fragile objects, a robot needs to continu-
ously reason about underlying safety constraints (Haddadin,
De Luca, and Albu-Schäffer 2017). Safe robot learning aims
to address this by enabling policies to acquire optimal be-
haviors while strictly respecting these boundaries. However,
a central challenge remains: how should safety requirements
be constructed and transferred across diverse tasks?
Existing safe robot learning methods typically encode
safety requirements via predefined logical rules or mathemat-
∗These authors contributed equally.
†Corresponding author.
Mathmatical Safety Constraints
NEUPRO
A Unsafe 
B Safe
A robot holding a scissor
pointing to a human
A robot holding a sponge
pointing to a human
1.Interpretable   2. Flexible safety reasoning 
3.Safety concept reuseable across tasks
1.Opaque   2.Bounded to specific tasks 
A: 1.0: sharp(scissor) ->Unsafe 
B: 0.0: sharp(sponge) ->Safe
A: 
 ->Unsafe
unsafe(Person)  :-
  sharp(O),near(O,Person),holding(Robot,O). 
B: 
 ->Unsafe 
Figure 1: Existing safe robot learning methods often encode
safety constraints using opaque mathematical/logical func-
tions, which are hard to interpret and bound to specific tasks.
We propose NEUPRO, leveraging differentiable reasoning to
alleviate these limitations using interpretable symbolic rules.
ical constraints (Brunke et al. 2025; Liu et al. 2023a, 2025).
While effective, these representations face several impor-
tant limitations. Hand-crafted logical rules and mathemati-
cal constraints can provide strong safety guarantees, but they
are typically designed for specific tasks and require substan-
tial engineering effort to formulate and adapt. This difficulty
becomes more pronounced for abstract, visually grounded re-
quirements, such as “do not point a knife at a human,” which
cannot be easily translated from raw images into explicit
mathematical constraints. Learning-based approaches (Kim
et al. 2023; Lindner et al. 2024; Günster et al. 2024) may
reduce the need for manual specification, but the resulting
safety representations are often entangled with the task and
policy, lacking interpretability and limiting their potential
reuse in new settings. Vision-Language Model (VLM)s offer
a promising alternative because they can interpret natural-
language safety instructions directly from visual observa-
tions. However, their predictions are generally difficult to
verify and do not, by themselves, provide formal safety guar-
antees. Recent work has begun to incorporate semantic scene
understanding into robot safety mechanisms (Brunke et al.
2025), this semantic information is still translated into task-
specific mathematical constraints. The central challenge is
arXiv:2609.39594v1  [cs.RO]  30 Sep 2026


therefore to ground human-interpretable safety requirements
directly from low-level visual observations while preserving
sufficient structure for verification and integration into safe
robot learning.
Driven by the need that safety constraints should not
only be optimized but also understood, we propose Neuro-
Symbolic Predicate Learning for Semantic Safe Robot Con-
trol (NEUPRO). NEUPRO allows one to construct task-
relevant safety constraints as transparent symbolic rules with
flexible compositions of learnable logical predicates. To train
the predicates, a differentiable logic reasoner enables gradi-
ents to flow from the safety-rule satisfaction signal back to
Logical Predicate Model (LPM) inferred from a visual foun-
dation model, such as Grounding DINO (Liu et al. 2023b).
Consequently, the LPM learns to map raw observations into
the grounded atoms required by the symbolic rules. Through
this formulation, the learned representation is not merely
optimized to fit an opaque label, but is explicitly (softly)
grounded in interpretable safety concepts. Furthermore, such
LPM allows us to achieve object-level and task-level gener-
alization without retraining. In our setting, we assume the
safety rules are predefined by domain expert as the normative
decision must always come from the responsible institution.
To evaluate NEUPRO’s capability, we collect the REA-
SON benchmark. To the best of the author’s knowledge,
REASON is the first real robot interpretable safety dataset. It
covers safety scenarios involving human–robot interactions
and robot–environment interactions, providing structured an-
notations that connect perceptual observations with inter-
pretable safety constraints. The results show that NEUPRO
can effectively learn interpretable safety-relevant predicates.
The learned features can generalize to novel tasks that share
safety semantics. Moreover, in contrast to conventional black-
box cost formulations, NEUPRO can provide explicit expla-
nations for safety violation.
To summarize, our main contributions are:
• We propose NEUPRO, a neuro-symbolic framework that
represents safety specifications as interpretable symbolic
rules, facilitating flexible, interpretable safety reasoning
directly from visual inputs.
• NEUPRO supports scalable semantic-safety predicate
learning and reasoning through its graph-based inference.
• We release REASON, to the best of our knowledge, the
first real robot interpretable safety specification dataset.
• We validate NEUPRO’s effectiveness in safety predicates
learning and safety reasoning on REASON, and demon-
strate its interpretability, flexible reasoning, and safety
predicate cross-task generalization capability over con-
ventional safety constraints formulations.
2
Related Work
NEUPRO builds on differentiable logic and is closely related
to safe and neuro-symbolic robot learning.
First-order logic (FOL) and Differentiable Forward-
Chaining Reasoning. We refer readers to App. A for a
review of first-order logic fundamentals. Building on this
foundation, differentiable forward-chaining inference (Evans
and Grefenstette 2018; Shindo, Nishino, and Yamamoto
Method
Interp.
Veri.
Flexi.
Math. constraints
✗
✓
✗
Learning-based
✗
✗
●
VLM-based
●
✗
✓
NEUPRO
✓
✓
✓
Table 1: NEUPRO alleviates the limitations of existing
safety reasoning paradigms by supporting interpretable, ver-
ifiable, and flexible safety reasoning. We compare different
paradigms along these three dimensions, where ✓, ●, and ✗
indicate strong, partial, and limited support, respectively.
2021; Ye et al. 2022) enables logical entailment to be
computed in a differentiable manner via tensor-based op-
erations. This paradigm bridges symbolic reasoning with
gradient-based learning, allowing logic-driven models to be
trained end-to-end. However, despite their differentiability,
tensor-based reasoning operations are inherently memory-
intensive. To address this bottleneck, recent work such as
Neumann (Shindo et al. 2024) leverages Graph Neural Net-
works (GNNs) to mitigate memory overhead. While NE-
UPRO similarly utilizes a graph architecture for memory
efficiency, our approach differs in focus. Whereas Neumann
focuses on inducing the logical rules, NEUPRO leverages
graph-based reasoning to learn the neural feature extractor,
focusing instead on representation learning to softly ground
high level concepts in raw perception.
Neuro-Symbolic Robot Learning. A central line of
neuro-symbolic robot learning uses symbolic predicates and
operators to bridge continuous robot observations with high-
level task and motion planning. For example, Silver et al.
(2022) learn neuro-symbolic skills that integrate symbolic
operators with neural policies for bi-level task and motion
planning. Chitnis et al. (2022) learn neuro-symbolic rela-
tional transition models for planning in continuous robotic
domains, while VisualPredicator (Liang et al. 2025) learns
task-relevant predicates and abstract world models from
robot interaction data to improve planning and generaliza-
tion. Other approaches, such as Dylan (Ye, Arenz, and Ker-
sting 2025) and NeSy Plan (Keller, Tanneberg, and Peters
2025), use symbolic abstractions to decompose long-horizon
tasks into reusable skills and high-level plans. Unlike these
methods primarily use symbolic structures for task planning
and skill composition, NEUPRO uses symbolic rules to rea-
son whether a scene satisfies safety requirements and why.
Specifically, NEUPRO represents safety requirements as in-
terpretable symbolic rules and uses a differentiable reasoner
to ground safety-relevant predicates from raw visual obser-
vations. This allows safety supervision to shape the learned
perceptual representation while preserving explicit explana-
tions of constraint satisfaction.
Safe Robot Learning. A common approach in safe robot
learning is to specify safety constraints manually. For ex-
ample, in constrained reinforcement learning (Achiam et al.
2017; Liu et al. 2022b; Yu et al. 2022), safety constraints
are encoded as a cumulative cost, and task performance is
optimized subject to a safety budget. Other methods enforce


Raw Image Input
Grounding DINO
MLP
Neural Perception Module 
Softly Grounded Atoms
Graph Differentiable
Reasoner
Masks
Labels
0.81: holding(robot,scissor).
0.74: near(scissor, person).
0.28: near(cup0, table_edge).
0.54: near(cup2, table_edge).
Interpretable Safety Constraints
...
3
2
1
...
First-order rules as safety constraints
Dynamic Sparse
graph construction:
Groundings of the active
constraints of each image.
Active rules
4
8
Predicted
safety score
Gradient
3
2
1
0.98: sharp(scissor).
0.03: sharp(sponge).
0.68: fragile(cup0).
0.68: fragile(cup2).
Commonsense Knowledge 
7
6
5
8
R1
R3
R4
R2
4
6
5
7
R1: unsafe(Person) :- 
                   sharp(O),near(O,Person),holding(Robot,O). 
R2: unsafe(Obj) :- 
                   fragile(Obj),near(Obj, table_edge).
Figure 2: Overview of NEUPRO. NEUPRO supports interpretable safety reasoning, end-to-end grounding of safety concepts
in images, and flexible reasoning with commonsense knowledge. NEUPRO consists of two key components: (i) a neural
perception module and (ii) a graph-based differentiable reasoner. Given a raw image, the perception module uses Grounding
DINO and a learnable MLP to extract object-centric features and predict soft truth values for safety-relevant grounded atoms.
The differentiable reasoner then infers the safety prediction based on the ground atom evaluation, safety rules, and commonsense
knowledge. For details, please see Sec. 3.
safety through control-theoretic mechanisms, including con-
trol barrier functions (Ames et al. 2019), reachability analy-
sis (Selim et al. 2022; Ganai et al. 2023), and shielding (Yang
et al. 2023; Alshiekh et al. 2018). Recent methods further ex-
plore differentiable barrier-function architectures (Xiao et al.
2023, 2025) or embed safety constraints into constraint mani-
folds (Liu et al. 2022a, 2023a, 2025). Their safety constraints
are typically encoded as opaque scalar costs or mathemati-
cal representations. Such formulations are often difficult to
interpret semantically and are usually tied to specific tasks.
Learning-based approaches (Kim et al. 2023; Lindner et al.
2024) may reduce the need for manual specification, but the
resulting safety representations are often entangled with the
task and policy, lacking interpretability and limiting their po-
tential reuse in new settings. In contrast, NEUPRO expresses
safety specifications as interpretable FOL rules and supports
flexible safety reasoning and safety feature reuse.
3
Neuro-Symbolic Predicate Learning for
Semantic Safe Robot Control (NEUPRO)
Let us now introduce NEUPRO, a framework for learning
safety-aware perceptual representations from raw observa-
tions while preserving the structure and interpretability of
symbolic safety rules. As summarized in Fig. 2, NEUPRO
consists of two main components. (i) A Logical Predicate
Model (LPM) maps raw images to soft truth values of
grounded atoms. (ii) A graph-based differentiable reasoner
evaluates first-order safety rules through index-based mes-
sage passing over dynamically instantiated rule groundings.
Together, they enable memory-efficient end-to-end learning,
avoiding dense tensor-based differentiable reasoning.
Problem Formulation
The overall goal is to represents safety requirements
as a set of interpretable First-Order Logic (FOL) rules
{r1, r2, . . . , rC}. Each rule
ri :−pm(tk, . . . ), . . . , pn(tl, . . . ).
is defined over a predicate vocabulary pm, pn ∈P and a set
of terms tk, tl ∈T , including object variables and constants.
Specifically, A Language L is a tuple of (P, A, V), where
P is a set of predicates, A is a set of constants, and V is
a set of variables. A term is a constant or a variable. A
ground term or simply a fact is a term with no variables. We
denote an n-ary predicate p by p/n. An atom is a formula
p(t1, . . . , tn), where t1, . . . , tn are terms. A literal is an atom
or its negation. A clause is a finite disjunction ∨of literals.
A definite clause is a clause with exactly one positive literal,
such as A ∨¬B1 ∨. . . ¬B2. We can write definite clasues in
the form of A :−B1, . . . , Bn.
NEUPRO assumes that the the symbolic safety rules are
given. That is, our goal is not to learn the rules themselves,
but to learn how to ground their predicates pi from raw robot
observations. However, training each predicate classifier in-
dependently requires explicit labels for every predicate in
every scene, which becomes costly as the number of objects,
relations, and rules grows. Instead, we uses differentiable rule
evaluation as a structured supervision signal: even when only


rule-level labels or partially annotated predicates are avail-
able, gradients can propagate through the symbolic rules to
guide the LPM. As a result, the learned predicates remain in-
terpretable and reusable for the downstream safety-reasoning
tasks. We can formulate the problem as:
Let D = {(st, yt, mt)}N
t=1 denote a dataset of scene ob-
servations, where st ∈S is a raw observation, such as an
image. The vector yt ∈{0, 1}C contains rule-level safety
labels, where yt,i = 1 indicates that observation st satisfies
the i-th safety rule and yt,i = 0 indicates a violation. The
mask mt ∈{0, 1}C specifies which safety rules are active.
Given an observation st, our goal is to learn a neural LPM
pθ,j(st) = P(gj = True | st; θ)
where gj ∈G denotes the grounded atoms, such that the
induced rule evaluated by a differentiable logical reasoner
R(·) support accurate and interpretable prediction of rule
satisfaction, i.e., R(pθ(st)) ⊙mt ≃yt ⊙mt.
Perceptual Symbol Grounding
NEUPRO leverages Grounding DINO (Liu et al. 2023b) to
extracts a set of object features from raw image batch. Base
on the labeled rules associated with the image, we select a
subset of features s ∈R|G|×Nf whose object’s class matches
the terms appearing in the rule. The features are flattened over
batch, G denotes the set of all grounded atoms in the batch,
and Nf is the feature dimension. The robot then infers the
truth values of safety-critical predicates, such as whether a
collision is likely. To this end, a neural LPM pθ outputs a
continuous valuation vector
v = pθ(s) ∈(0, 1)|G|.
(1)
Each entry vi,j corresponds to the soft truth value of a
grounded atom in data point i. For example, a grounded
atom gj may take the form
0.9 : collision(robot, obstacle).
indicating that the robot has a 0.9 probability of colliding
with the obstacle. These continuous valuations serve as the
initial valuation states for the differentiable reasoning.
Reasoning Graph for NEUPRO
To alleviate the memory bottleneck of tensor-based differen-
tiable reasoning, NEUPRO dynamically constructs a sparse
reasoning graph for each mini-batch of the rule ground-
ings of the active safety specifications. The graph contains
three types of node, a Grounded Atom Node computes the
soft truth value for the corresponding predicates for each
instance (e.g., 0.81 : holding(robot, scissor); a Con-
junction Node computes the logical conjunction probabil-
ity among multiple grounded atom (e.g., fragile(cup0) ∧
near(cup0, table_edge)); and a Disjunction Node com-
putes logical disjunction probability among multiple applied
instances, such as unsafe(cup0) ∨unsafe(cup2). An il-
lustrative figure can be found in the Differentiable Reasoner
Graph block in Fig. 2.
Literal polarity is handled through an affine transforma-
tion of the corresponding atom valuation, using sign s and
bias b. For a positive literal, NEUPRO uses [sign, bias] =
[1, 0], leaving the valuation unchanged. For a negated literal,
it uses [sign, bias] = [−1, 1], which maps a valuation x to
1 −x. Using these structural tensors, the soft truth values of
all grounded literals are computed in parallel as
l = v ⊙s + b,
(2)
where l ∈R|G| contains the valuation of the grounded literal.
Tensor Indexing. For every grounded literal, the graph
structure of NEUPRO is computed through two indexing
tensors: ic ∈N|G| specifies the edge connecting the grounded
literal l to the valid conjunction node using logical_and
operation ∧, and id ∈N|G| specifies the edge connecting
multiple conjunction node applied by the same rule to the
disjunction node via logical_or operation ∨.
Differentiable Aggregation. Given the grounded literal
valuations, NEUPRO performs two steps over the sparse rea-
soning graph:
Step 1: From grounded literal to conjunction nodes.
All literals belonging to the same grounded clause are
aggregated by a differentiable ∧using product t-norm:
hconj = scatter_prod (1, l, ic, dim_size = Nc) ,
(3)
where 1 is a Nc dimensional ones vector and Nc is the
total number of valid grounded conjunction nodes in the
batch. The resulting value hconj represents the soft truth
value of the corresponding grounded rule body.
Step 2: From conjunctions to rule outputs. Multiple
grounded conjunctions may satisfy the same safety rule.
Therefore, NEUPRO aggregates all clauses associated
with the same rule head into a rule-level satisfaction prob-
ability. We apply a differentiable Soft-OR aggregation to
the disjunction node as: Hout =
scatter_softorγ (hconj, id, dim_size = B × C) .
(4)
where C is the total number of clauses in the batch and
softorγ is a smooth logical or function:
softorγ(x1, . . . , xn) = γ log
X
1≤i≤n exp(xi/γ), (5)
where γ > 0 is a smooth parameter. Eq. 5 is an ap-
proximation of the max function over probabilistic values
based on the log-sum-exp approach (Cuturi and Blondel
2017). The resulting vector Hout ∈[0, 1]B·C stores the
satisfaction probabilities for all batch-rule pairs.
Finally, we reshape Hout into a rule-satisfaction matrix
P = reshape (Hout, [B, C]) ,
(6)
where each entry P[t, i] = Hout[t · C + i] represents NE-
UPRO’s predicted probability that observation st satisfies
safety rule Fi.
Because the reasoning procedure is implemented using
differentiable indexing and scatter operations, gradients can
propagate from rule-level supervision back to the underlying
perceptual grounding network. At the same time, the in-
termediate conjunction nodes and sparse edges preserve an
interpretable correspondence between grounded predicates,
rule bodies, and final safety predictions.


Learning Objective
NEUPRO is trained to match rule-level safety satisfaction.
For each observation st and safety rule Fi ∈K, let yt,i ∈
{0, 1} where yt,i = 1 indicates that st satisfies rule Fi, and
yt,i = 0 indicates a violation. NEUPRO predicts
ˆyt,i = P(Fi = True | st; θ) = P[t, i].
(7)
Since not every rule is active for every observation, we use
an active constraint mask M ∈{0, 1}B×C, where Mt,i =
1 indicates that rule Fi should contribute to the loss for
observation st. The masked binary cross-entropy loss is then
L(θ) =
−
B
X
t=1
C
X
i=1
Mt,i
h
yt,i log ˆyt,i + (1 −yt,i) log(1 −ˆyt,i)
i
.
(8)
This objective encourages NEUPRO to assign high satisfac-
tion probabilities to valid safety rules and low satisfaction
probabilities to violated rules. As a result, the perception
module learns representations that are directly shaped by
symbolic safety semantics, while the differentiable reasoner
provides an interpretable and end-to-end trainable bridge be-
tween observations and logical constraint satisfaction.
4
Experiments
With NEUPRO at hand, we now evaluate NEUPRO’s capa-
bility. Specifically, we aim to answer the following research
questions: RQ1: Can NEUPRO effectively learn safety-
related predicates from images through reasoner supervi-
sion? RQ2: Can NEUPRO accurately identify safety vio-
lation from visual observations? RQ3: Can NEUPRO pro-
vide explanations for safety violation? RQ4: Can learned
predicates transfer to different objects and task configura-
tions? RQ5: Can NEUPRO flexibly reason about safety vi-
olations, rather than relying on fixed object-relation asso-
ciations? RQ6: Does NEUPRO enable scalable predicate
learning and inference?
Benchmark datasets.
Existing robot safety datasets, such
as OopsieVerse (Balaji et al. 2026), often supervise models
with trajectory-level risk scores or binary safe/unsafe labels.
While useful for assessing whether a safety violation occurs,
such supervision typically could not be reason which safety
conditions is violated from visual input. This limits the eval-
uation of models that aim to ground and reason over human-
understandable safety concepts. To address this gap, we col-
lect and introduce REASON, a rule-grounded real-robot
benchmark dataset for interpretable safety reasoning from vi-
sual observations. REASON covers robot–environment and
robot–human safety scenarios. Each observation is paired
with safety-relevant predicates, human-specified symbolic
constraints, and safety labels, enabling evaluation of the full
perception-to-reasoning pipeline: grounding safety-critical
concepts from raw images, composing them through exe-
cutable rules, and identifying the conditions responsible for
each safety decision. To facilitate reproducible research, we
will open-source REASON together with the annotation tool
used to create its predicate annotations, symbolic constraints,
and rule-level safety labels. Collectively, these tasks require
recognizing object properties, spatial configurations, manip-
ulation states, and human-directed object motion. See App. B
for a detailed description of individual tasks.
Experimental Setup and evaluation metrics.
For each
task, NEUPRO receives a RGB image observation and pre-
dicts safety scores. The safety score is used both as a safety
prediction and as a learning signal for the visual feature ex-
tractor. We evaluate safety recognition using accuracy, pre-
cision, recall and F1 score as our evaluation metric.
Baselines.
We compare NEUPRO with six baselines, in-
cluding: a Black-box classifier: a neural classifier trained
end-to-end to predict binary safe/unsafe labels directly from
image observations. Vision Language Models (VLMs): We
use Qwen3.5 9B (Qwen Team 2026) and DeepSeek-VL2
4B (Wu et al. 2024) to classify each observation as safe
or unsafe. VLMs + in-context learning (ICL): We pro-
vide Qwen3.5 9B (Qwen Team 2026) and DeepSeek-VL2
4B (Wu et al. 2024) with task-specific classification rules
in the prompt and ask them to infer whether each scene vio-
lates the corresponding safety constraint. Tensor-based Rea-
soner: Furthermore, we compare NEUPRO with a tensor-
based variant that adopts tensor reasoner (Shindo et al. 2023)
as its backbone. Experiments are running on a RTX A6000
GPU with 48GB RAM. Architectural details of the black-box
classifier and MLP within NEUPRO are in App. C.
RQ1:
NEUPRO accurately learns safety-relevant pred-
icates from raw images through differentiable reasoner
supervision. We evaluate the accuracy of eight predicates
learned by NEUPRO. For each predicate, we use five test im-
ages and compute the mean accuracy of the corresponding
grounded atoms. Fig. 3 compares NEUPRO with Qwen3.5
and DeepSeek-VL2 across all eight predicates. NEUPRO
achieves the highest accuracy, whereas the VLM baselines
exhibit substantially lower and less consistent performance,
particularly on relational (e.g., occluded) and human-
interaction predicates (e.g., point_to_human). These re-
sults show that safety supervision propagated through the dif-
ferentiable reasoner effectively guides the perception module
to ground accurate and safety-relevant predicates from visual
observations. Prompts and other metrics in App. D.
RQ2:
NEUPRO accurately infers safety outcomes di-
rectly from raw visual observations. Building on the
learned safety-relevant predicates, we next evaluate whether
NEUPRO can compose them through symbolic rules to cor-
rectly determine whether a scene satisfies or violates a safety
constraint. We conduct this evaluation across all seven REA-
SON tasks and report task accuracy, defined as the percentage
of test scenes for which the predicted safety outcome is cor-
rect. Tab. 2 compares NEUPRO with task-specific black-box
MLP classifiers, VLM-based baselines, and VLM-based in-
context learning(ICL) baselines. The MLP baseline is trained
separately for each task and therefore does not support evalu-
ation in the joint all-task setting. In contrast, NEUPRO can be
adapted to additional tasks by extending the rule base without
redesigning the underlying safety-reasoning mechanism. All
results are averaged over five test groups and reported with
standard deviations. Overall, NEUPRO achieves consistently


held_by_gripper
above
colliding
near_edge
occluded
inside
close_to_person point_to_person
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Accuracy
0.82
0.6
0.83
0.68
0.4
0.87
0.37
0.6
0.58
0.62
0.35
0.65
0.6
0.8
0.73
0.43
1
1
1
1
1
1
0.9
0.93
Predicates:
Qwen3.5
DeepSeek-VL2
NEUPRO (ours)
Figure 3: NEUPRO accurately learns predicates through differentiable reasoner supervision from raw images. NEUPRO
outperforms baseline methods in predicate grounding accuracy. For readability, only mean accuracy is shown. Details see RQ1.
Method
Tasks
Occlusion
Cabinet
Near
Above
Collision
Close
Pointing
All task
Black-box classifier
0.84±0.09
0.96±0.04
0.79±0.08
0.98±0.05
0.96±0.05
0.98±0.04
0.86±0.14
N/A
DeepSeek-VL2 (ICL)
0.41±0.11
0.5±0.11
0.54±0.07
0.3±0.24
0.31±0.07
0.4±0.06
0.33±0.16
0.48±0.03
Qwen3.5 (ICL)
0.49±0.02
0.61±0.02
0.39±0.02
0.68±0.16
0.52±0.14
0.82±0.04
0.57±0.16
0.55±0.04
DeepSeek-VL2
0.41±0.01
0.51±0.06
0.53±0.04
0.31±0.09
0.39±0.02
0.21±0.06
0.31±0.03
0.44±0.04
Qwen3.5
0.5±0.02
0.62±0.01
0.39±0.0
0.78±0.03
0.75±0.0
0.8±0.11
0.77±0.02
0.55±0.04
NEUPRO (ours)
1.0±0.0
0.96±0.06
0.99±0.03
1.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
0.92±0.08
0.92±0.02
Table 2: NEUPRO accurately infer safety outcomes from raw visual observation. Safety classification accuracy comparison
across all REASON tasks with baseline methods (the higher, the better, best performing bolded). Results averaged over five test
groups with std, details see RQ2. ICL denotes in-context learning.
1.0: class(obj0, person). 1.0: class(obj3, scissor).
1.0: class(obj1, table).   1.0: class(obj2, gripper).
 1.0:unsafe(obj3):-
       class(obj3,scissor), close_to_person(obj3),
       held_by_gripper(obj3).
1.0: close_to_person(obj3). 
0.97: held_by_gripper(obj3).
Grounded Atoms
Grounded Unsafe Rule
Obj0: Person
Obj2: Gripper
Obj3: Scissor
Obj1: Table
Detected Objects from Image
Figure 4: Qualitative example of safety violation explana-
tions produced by NEUPRO, in the form of first-order logic
rules and atoms. In this scene, the grounded atoms indicate
that the robot is holding scissors and is close to a person,
from which NEUPRO infers an unsafe prediction through
the corresponding first-order logic rule.
strong accuracy across tasks, demonstrating that its learned
predicates can be effectively composed for end-to-end safety
reasoning from raw images. Although VLMs can be applied
across multiple tasks, they achieve substantially lower accu-
racy (even when task rules are provided in context), high-
lighting the advantage of explicit predicate grounding and
symbolic reasoning. We provide the prompt, the black-box
classifier architecture, and other metrics in App. E.
RQ3:
NEUPRO can explain safety violations. A key ad-
vantage of NEUPRO is its ability to provide interpretable
safety explanations. We now qualitatively demonstrate this
capability. Unlike black-box classifiers that only output a
safe/unsafe label, NEUPRO infers safety by composing
atoms through interpretable logic rules. As shown in Fig. 4,
on_table
close_by
held_by_gripper
close_by
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Accuracy
1
0.9
1
0.92
0.95
0.89
0.94
0.86
retains 95%
retains 99%
retains 94%
retains 93%
Object-level Generalization
Task-level Generalization
NEUPRO (trained on target)
NEUPRO (transferred)
Figure 5: NEUPRO learned predicates are transferrable.
Object-level generalization evaluates whether predicates re-
main accurate when applied to different object instances
or categories. Task-level generalization compares predicates
trained directly on a target task with predicates transferred
from another task. NEUPRO retains high accuracy under
both settings, demonstrating that its learned representations
are reusable across objects and tasks. Details see RQ4.
the scene is predicted as unsafe because the grounded rule is
satisfied by atoms indicating that the robot gripper is holding
a scissor and that the scissor is close to a person.
RQ4:
NEUPRO learned predicates can be transferred
to different objects and tasks. Since NEUPRO grounds
safety concepts as semantic predicates rather than task-
specific labels, predicates learned in one context can be
reused by other safety rules that require the same underlying
concepts. We evaluate predicate transfer under two settings.
(i) object-level generalization measures whether a predicate


Method
Above_Laptop
Close_Person
Hard
Soft
Sharp
N.sha
NEUPRO (ours)
1.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
Qwen3.5
0±0.0
0.96±0.08 0.04±0.08 0.96±0.08
Qwen3.5(ICL)
0.36±0.15 0.76±0.08 0.6±0.28 0.92±0.10
DeepSeek-VL2
0.64±0.15 0.32±0.20 0.72±0.16 0.36±0.08
DeepSeek-VL2(ICL) 0.56±0.29 0.44±0.32 0.84±0.08 0.4±0.22
Table 3: NEUPRO supports flexible safety reasoning
with commonsense knowledge. We evaluate whether each
method distinguishes identical spatial relations with different
object properties: hard vs. soft objects above a laptop, and
sharp vs. non-sharp objects close to a person. Results are
reported as mean accuracy with std. See RQ5 for details.
learned from one set of object instances or categories remains
accurate when applied to unseen objects. (ii) task-level gen-
eralization evaluates whether a predicate learned in one task
can be reused in a different task that requires the same un-
derlying semantic concept e.g., predicates such as closeby
may appear in multiple tasks involving different objects or
interaction scenarios. Fig. 5 summarizes the accuracy results
over five test groups, details and other metrics see App. F.
In both settings, NEUPRO is evaluated on tasks/objects that
differ from those used during training. Results show that
NEUPRO maintains strong performance under such trans-
fer settings, suggesting that it learns reusable safety-relevant
representations rather than task-specific visual shortcuts.
RQ5:
NEUPRO can reason about safety specifications
beyond fixed object-relation associations by incorporat-
ing commonsense knowledge. We evaluate this capability
in two tasks in which the same spatial relation yields different
safety outcomes depending on the manipulated object. In the
first task, holding a hard object, e.g., a cup, above a laptop
is unsafe, whereas holding a soft object, e.g., a towel, in the
same position is safe. In the second task, holding a sharp ob-
ject close to a person is unsafe, whereas a non-sharp object
in the same spatial configuration is safe. Solving these tasks
requires grounding the relevant visual relations and combin-
ing them with background knowledge about object attributes.
Tab. 3 reports accuracy results over five test groups, details,
and other metrics in App. G. Results show that NEUPRO
supports flexible safety reasoning and avoids relying on fixed
visual associations between relations and safety labels.
RQ6:
NEUPRO supports scalable safety predicate
learning and inference due to its graph-based differen-
tiable reasoning. We compare graph-based NEUPRO with
its tensor-based variant using all tasks in REASON, and eval-
uate both methods in terms of training time, peak GPU mem-
ory usage, and inference time. Fig. 6 summarizes the com-
parison results. While achieving the same accuracy, graph-
based NEUPRO yields 9.1× faster training, 14.3× lower
peak GPU memory usage, and 1.6× faster inference. Note
that we use 102 rules in this evaluation. As the number of
rules increases, the efficiency advantage of graph-based rea-
soning is expected to become even larger.
Tensor
NEUPRO
0
2000
4000
4379
479
9.1×
faster
Training time
(s / 1k steps)
Tensor
NEUPRO
0
20
28
2
14.3×
smaller
Peak GPU memory
(GB)
Tensor
NEUPRO
0
10
20
22.6
14.4
1.6×
faster
Inference time
(ms / sample)
Figure 6: NEUPRO supports scalable training and infer-
ence through graph-based reasoning. We compare graph-
based NEUPRO with its tensor-based variant. NEUPRO
achieves 9.1× faster training, 14.3× lower memory usage
and 1.6× faster inference, demonstrating substantially better
scalability. Details see RQ6.
5
Limitations
Although NEUPRO demonstrates strong capability for in-
terpretable and flexible safety reasoning, several limitations
remain and open promising directions for future work. First,
NEUPRO’s reasoning performance depends on the quality
and coverage of the safety rules and background knowledge.
If a safety condition is missing or the knowledge base lacks
the relevant object properties, NEUPRO may fail to identify
the corresponding violation. Second, NEUPRO currently fo-
cuses on visual safety reasoning from static observations,
and its performance relies on the underlying vision backbone
grounding DINO. When grounding DINO fails to detect an
object, NEUPRO lacks information about that object. Third,
many real-world safety constraints are inherently temporal,
involving motion trends or future consequences of an action.
Incorporating temporal predicates and predictive world mod-
els would allow NEUPRO to reason about evolving safety
risks, such as whether a moving object is likely to fall or col-
lide. Fourth, although the REASON dataset contains images
from multiple viewpoints, only one image is used during in-
ference. Incorporating multi-view reasoning could improve
the model’s robustness, particularly when a single view is
affected by occlusion.
6
Conclusion
We presented NEUPRO, a neuro-symbolic framework for
interpretable and flexible robot safety reasoning from vi-
sual observations. NEUPRO alleviates the non-interpretable
and inflexible limitations of previous work by representing
safety specifications as interpretable first-order logic rules.
NEUPRO supports scalable predicate learning and safety
reasoning from raw images due to its graph-based reason-
ing. Furthermore, we introduced REASON, the first real-
robot benchmark for interpretable safety specification. Ex-
periments on REASON validate NEUPRO’s interpretabil-
ity, flexibility, and scalability. Overall, NEUPRO provides
a transparent and reusable alternative to task-specific scalar
costs and opaque safety representations. By connecting raw
perception, symbolic knowledge, and differentiable reason-
ing, NEUPRO provides a promising foundation for robot
learning systems that deliver accurate, interpretable, trans-
ferable, and scalable safety decisions.


7
Acknowledgements
This work was funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemein-
schaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) under Ger-
many’s Excellence Strategy – EXC-3066, “The Adaptive
Mind”, and EXC-3057, “Reasonable AI”. It was also funded
by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Re-
search, the Hessian Ministry of Higher Education, Research,
Science and the Arts (HMWK) within their joint support
of the National Research Center for Applied Cybersecu-
rity ATHENE, via the “SenPai: XReLeaS” project. This
work also benefits from DFG Emmy Noether Programme
(CH 2676/1-1), the EU Horizon Europe projects MANiBOT
(101120823) and ARISE (101135959), the BMFTR project
RIG (16ME1001), and the ERC project SIREN (101163933).
We also acknowledge support from the hessian.AI Service
Center (BMFTR, 16IS22091), the hessian.AI Innovation Lab
(S-DIW04/0013/003), Google, and the Alfried Krupp Foun-
dation.
References
Achiam, J.; Held, D.; Tamar, A.; and Abbeel, P. 2017. Con-
strained policy optimization. In International conference on
machine learning. PMLR.
Alshiekh, M.; Bloem, R.; Ehlers, R.; Könighofer, B.;
Niekum, S.; and Topcu, U. 2018. Safe reinforcement learn-
ing via shielding. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on
artificial intelligence.
Ames, A. D.; Coogan, S.; Egerstedt, M.; Notomista, G.;
Sreenath, K.; and Tabuada, P. 2019. Control barrier func-
tions: Theory and applications. In 2019 18th European con-
trol conference (ECC). IEEE.
Balaji, A.; Bahety, A.; Ambatipudi, S.; Lam, D.; Xu, J.; and
Martín-Martín, R. 2026. OopsieVerse: A Safety Benchmark
with Damage-Aware Simulation for Robot Manipulation. In
Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), 2026.
Brunke, L.; Greeff, M.; Hall, A. W.; Yuan, Z.; Zhou, S.;
Panerati, J.; and Schoellig, A. P. 2022.
Safe learning in
robotics: From learning-based control to safe reinforcement
learning.
Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Au-
tonomous Systems.
Brunke, L.; Zhang, Y.; Römer, R.; Naimer, J.; Staykov, N.;
Zhou, S.; and Schoellig, A. P. 2025. Semantically safe robot
manipulation: From semantic scene understanding to motion
safeguards. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters.
Chitnis, R.; Silver, T.; Tenenbaum, J. B.; Lozano-Perez, T.;
and Kaelbling, L. P. 2022.
Learning neuro-symbolic re-
lational transition models for bilevel planning.
In 2022
IEEE/RSJ international conference on intelligent robots and
systems (IROS). IEEE.
Cuturi, M.; and Blondel, M. 2017. Soft-dtw: a differentiable
loss function for time-series. In Proceedings of the 34th
International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML).
Evans, R.; and Grefenstette, E. 2018. Learning Explanatory
Rules from Noisy Data. J. Artif. Intell. Res.
Ganai, M.; Gong, Z.; Yu, C.; Herbert, S.; and Gao, S. 2023.
Iterative reachability estimation for safe reinforcement learn-
ing. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems.
Garcıa, J.; and Fernández, F. 2015. A comprehensive survey
on safe reinforcement learning. Journal of Machine Learning
Research.
Günster, J.; Liu, P.; Peters, J.; and Tateo, D. 2024. Han-
dling long-term safety and uncertainty in safe reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.12045.
Haddadin, S.; De Luca, A.; and Albu-Schäffer, A. 2017.
Robot collisions: A survey on detection, isolation, and iden-
tification. IEEE Transactions on Robotics.
Keller, L.; Tanneberg, D.; and Peters, J. 2025.
Neuro-
symbolic imitation learning: Discovering symbolic abstrac-
tions for skill learning. In 2025 IEEE International Confer-
ence on Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE.
Kim, K.; Swamy, G.; Liu, Z.; Zhao, D.; Choudhury, S.; and
Wu, S. 2023. Learning Shared Safety Constraints from Multi-
task Demonstrations. In Thirty-seventh Conference on Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems.
Lasota, P. A.; Fong, T.; and Shah, J. A. 2017. A survey of
methods for safe human-robot interaction. Foundations and
Trends® in Robotics.
Liang, Y.; Kumar, N.; Tang, H.; Weller, A.; Tenenbaum, J. B.;
Silver, T.; Henriques, J. F.; and Ellis, K. 2025. Visualpredi-
cator: Learning abstract world models with neuro-symbolic
predicates for robot planning. In International Conference
on Learning Representations.
Lindner, D.; Chen, X.; Tschiatschek, S.; Hofmann, K.; and
Krause, A. 2024. Learning safety constraints from demon-
strations with unknown rewards. In International Conference
on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics. PMLR.
Liu, P.; Bou-Ammar, H.; Peters, J.; and Tateo, D. 2025. Safe
reinforcement learning on the constraint manifold: Theory
and applications. IEEE Transactions on Robotics.
Liu, P.; Tateo, D.; Ammar, H. B.; and Peters, J. 2022a. Robot
reinforcement learning on the constraint manifold. In Con-
ference on Robot Learning. PMLR.
Liu, P.; Zhang, K.; Tateo, D.; Jauhri, S.; Hu, Z.; Peters, J.;
and Chalvatzaki, G. 2023a. Safe reinforcement learning of
dynamic high-dimensional robotic tasks: navigation, manip-
ulation, interaction. In 2023 IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE.
Liu, S.; Zeng, Z.; Ren, T.; Li, F.; Zhang, H.; Yang, J.; Li,
C.; Yang, J.; Su, H.; Zhu, J.; et al. 2023b. Grounding dino:
Marrying dino with grounded pre-training for open-set object
detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.05499.
Liu, Z.; Cen, Z.; Isenbaev, V.; Liu, W.; Wu, S.; Li, B.; and
Zhao, D. 2022b. Constrained variational policy optimization
for safe reinforcement learning. In International Conference
on Machine Learning. PMLR.
Qwen Team. 2026. Qwen3.5: Towards Native Multimodal
Agents.
Selim, M.; Alanwar, A.; Kousik, S.; Gao, G.; Pavone, M.;
and Johansson, K. H. 2022.
Safe reinforcement learning
using black-box reachability analysis. IEEE Robotics and
Automation Letters.


Shindo, H.; Nishino, M.; and Yamamoto, A. 2021. Differ-
entiable Inductive Logic Programming for Structured Ex-
amples. In Proceedings of the 35th AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence (AAAI).
Shindo, H.; Pfanschilling, V.; Dhami, D. S.; and Kersting,
K. 2023. α ilp: thinking visual scenes as differentiable logic
programs. Machine Learning.
Shindo, H.; Pfanschilling, V.; Dhami, D. S.; and Kersting,
K. 2024. Learning differentiable logic programs for abstract
visual reasoning. Machine Learning.
Silver, T.; Athalye, A.; Tenenbaum, J. B.; Lozano-Pérez, T.;
and Kaelbling, L. P. 2022. Learning Neuro-Symbolic Skills
for Bilevel Planning. In Conference on Robot Learning.
Wachi, A.; Shen, X.; and Sui, Y. 2024. A survey of constraint
formulations in safe reinforcement learning. In Proceedings
of the Thirty-Third International Joint Conference on Artifi-
cial Intelligence.
Wu, Z.; Chen, X.; Pan, Z.; Liu, X.; Liu, W.; Dai,
D.; Gao, H.; Ma, Y.; Wu, C.; Wang, B.; et al. 2024.
Deepseek-vl2: Mixture-of-experts vision-language models
for advanced multimodal understanding.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.10302.
Xiao, W.; Wang, T.-H.; Gan, C.; and Rus, D. 2025. ABNet:
Adaptive explicit-Barrier Net for Safe and Scalable Robot
Learning. In Forty-second International Conference on Ma-
chine Learning.
Xiao, W.; Wang, T.-H.; Hasani, R.; Chahine, M.; Amini, A.;
Li, X.; and Rus, D. 2023. Barriernet: Differentiable control
barrier functions for learning of safe robot control. IEEE
Transactions on Robotics.
Yang, W.-C.; Marra, G.; Rens, G.; and De Raedt, L. 2023.
Safe reinforcement learning via probabilistic logic shields. In
Proceedings of the Thirty-Second International Joint Con-
ference on Artificial Intelligence.
Ye, Z.; Arenz, O.; and Kersting, K. 2025. Learning from
Less: Guiding Deep Reinforcement Learning with Differ-
entiable Symbolic Planning.
In RLC 2025 Workshop on
Programmatic Reinforcement Learning.
Ye, Z.; Shindo, H.; Dhami, D. S.; and Kersting, K. 2022. Neu-
ral Meta-Symbolic Reasoning and Learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.11650.
Yu, D.; Ma, H.; Li, S.; and Chen, J. 2022. Reachability con-
strained reinforcement learning. In International conference
on machine learning. PMLR.
Zhao, W.; He, T.; Chen, R.; Wei, T.; and Liu, C. 2023. State-
wise safe reinforcement learning: a survey. In Proceedings
of the Thirty-Second International Joint Conference on Arti-
ficial Intelligence.
