Beyond Uniform Compression: Budgeted Transmission Allocation for Extreme
Federated Learning
Pengfei Li, Mohammad Khalil
Centre for the Science of Learning & Technology (SLATE),
University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway
Abstract
Federated learning faces severe communication bottlenecks
when clients upload high-dimensional model updates. Exist-
ing methods often compress these updates uniformly across
all layers. This uniform approach ignores the heterogeneous
value of different parameter blocks and wastes limited band-
width on insensitive layers. To address this issue, we pro-
pose Layer-wise Budgeted Adaptive Transmission (LBAT).
LBAT reframes federated communication under extreme up-
link budgets as a resource allocation problem. Our framework
dynamically estimates the transmission value of different lay-
ers utilising local training signals. It then employs an exact
byte dynamic programming allocator to determine optimal
rank and bit configurations under strict budgets. We validate
LBAT on highly heterogeneous federated tabular prediction
and data generation tasks. Extensive experiments demonstrate
that LBAT consistently outperforms uniform rank, uniform
quantisation, and fixed compression baselines across various
extreme budget regimes. Furthermore, it achieves significantly
better communication and utility tradeoffs while preserving
essential distributional fidelity.
Introduction
Federated learning enables collaborative model training
without centralising raw data, offering a vital paradigm for
domains like healthcare and finance that face strict egress and
compliance constraints (McMahan et al. 2017; Kairouz and
McMahan 2021; Yang et al. 2019). The classic Federated Av-
eraging (FedAvg) framework enables data-localised model
training via multiple-step client local updates and periodic
server aggregation, becoming the foundational paradigm for
subsequent federated optimisation methods (McMahan et al.
2017; Kairouz and McMahan 2021). However, FedAvg fails
to eliminate federated learning system bottlenecks: clients
must still upload high-dimensional model updates to servers
each communication round. As client numbers increase,
model scales expand, or uplinks face constraints, repeated
model update uploads rapidly dominate training costs and
deployment feasibility (Konečn`y et al. 2016; Bonawitz et al.
2019). Thus, communication-efficient learning has long fo-
cused on message compression, synchronisation frequency
control, and partial client participation. Representative meth-
ods include QSGD, balancing communication volume and
Copyright © 2027, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
convergence error via stochastic quantisation (Alistarh et al.
2017), Deep Gradient Compression, significantly reducing
distributed training bandwidth overhead via gradient sparsi-
fication (Lin et al. 2017), and FedPAQ, combining periodic
averaging, partial client participation, and quantised mes-
sage passing (Reisizadeh et al. 2020). Recently, parameter-
efficient fine-tuning provides another path to reduce feder-
ated communication costs: LoRA significantly cuts trainable
parameters by freezing backbone models and training only
low rank adapters (Hu et al. 2022), while subsequent feder-
ated LoRA methods explore uploading and aggregating only
lightweight adapters, or incorporating quantisation to com-
press client updates (Babakniya et al. 2023; Grativol et al.
2024).
However, most aforementioned communication-efficient
methods focus on encoding given model updates more com-
pactly, reducing single-round communication overhead via
quantisation, sparsification, low-rank approximation, or low-
ered synchronisation frequency (Konečn`y et al. 2016; Al-
istarh et al. 2017; Lin et al. 2017; Reisizadeh et al. 2020;
Albasyoni et al. 2020). When per-round upload budgets are
extremely small, merely compressing full updates is insuf-
ficient. Clients must also decide which layers, adapter ma-
trices, and parameter blocks merit uploading most. Existing
uniform quantisation, uniform rank allocation, Top k spar-
sification, or fixed LoRA configurations typically assume
different parameter blocks possess approximately equal com-
munication value (Hu et al. 2022; Zhang et al. 2023). But
deep model hierarchical structures exhibit significant hetero-
geneity: different layers vary in parameter scale, compression
sensitivity, and task utility contribution. Multiple adaptive
optimisation studies show layer-wise or matrix-wise budget
allocation is often more effective than uniform configuration
(Dong et al. 2020; Zhang et al. 2023; Markov et al. 2024). In
federated learning, this issue is further exacerbated by client
data heterogeneity and aggregation shift. Non-IID data in-
duces client drift, and different layers may exhibit varying
model differences across clients (Karimireddy et al. 2020;
Li et al. 2020; Lee, Zhang, and Avestimehr 2023). Thus, in
heterogeneous client scenarios with extremely constrained
uplink budgets, key problems include not only "how to com-
press updates" but also "how to locally estimate parameter
block values per client and select the most valuable adapter
configuration for upload under strict byte budgets".
arXiv:2609.39646v1  [cs.LG]  30 Sep 2026


To this end, we propose LBAT (Layer-wise Budgeted
Adaptive Transmission), a layer-wise adaptive transmis-
sion framework for extreme uplink communication budgets.
LBAT’s core perspective is: when communication is ex-
tremely restricted, the key problem lies not only in "how
to compress model updates", but also in "which parameter
blocks limited upload bytes should be preferentially allocated
to". LBAT dynamically estimates the transmission values of
different layers based on local training signals, and adaptively
solves layer-wise upload configurations under strict budgets,
thereby transforming federated communication from a "uni-
form compression" paradigm into a "budgeted value alloca-
tion" problem. The overall pipeline of our proposed LBAT
framework is illustrated in Figure 1.
We validate LBAT in two highly challenging federated tab-
ular learning scenarios: communication-constrained tabular
prediction tasks (FedLBAT-Pred) and tabular data genera-
tion tasks (FedLBAT-Syn). These two scenarios cover dual
prediction and generation objectives, and encompass real-
istic challenges like highly non-IID data, mixed features,
and extreme sample skew. Extensive experiments show that
LBAT stably outperforms baseline methods like uniform
rank, uniform quantisation, FLoCoRA-style compression,
and sensitivity-free allocation, achieving significantly better
communication-utility trade-offs under extreme communica-
tion budgets. Our main contributions are as follows:
• Problem Reframing: We reframe federated communica-
tion under extreme uplink budgets as a layer-wise trans-
mission allocation problem, driving communication-
efficient federated learning to shift from the "how much
to compress" perspective to the "what to transmit prefer-
entially" perspective.
• Algorithm Design: We propose LBAT, a lightweight
framework not relying on public data, extra genera-
tors, or server-side distillation, maximising transmission
marginal utility under strict budgets through local value
estimation and adaptive allocation.
• Empirical Validation & Diagnostics: We demonstrate
LBAT’s effectiveness in federated tabular prediction and
generation tasks (FedLBAT-Pred & FedLBAT-Syn). Ad-
ditionally, through deep analysis of layer-wise allocation
strategies, gap-to-full-upload, TRTR-normalized utility,
and class coverage, we reveal the internal mechanisms
and interpretability of LBAT’s performance gains.
Related Work
Communication Efficient Federated Learning
Communication overhead remains a federated learning bot-
tleneck. FedAvg significantly reduces communication rounds
via local multi-step updates and server-side model averaging,
but clients must still upload model updates per round, and
uplink bandwidth often remains the primary limitation in
cross-institution collaboration and privacy-sensitive tabular
data scenarios (McMahan et al. 2017). Therefore, extensive
work studies compressing client upload content. QSGD es-
tablishes trade-offs between communication bits and opti-
misation variance via stochastic gradient quantisation (Alis-
tarh et al. 2017), Deep Gradient Compression reduces com-
munication bandwidth utilising gradient sparsity (Lin et al.
2017), and FedPAQ further lowers federated training commu-
nication costs combining periodic averaging and quantised
communication (Reisizadeh et al. 2020). These methods pri-
marily focus on "how to compress given updates", like re-
ducing gradient precision or sparsifying updates. A related
but finer-grained work category studies layer-wise compres-
sion. L GreCo notes different network layers exhibit varying
compression error sensitivities, improving compression effi-
ciency while satisfying error constraints via layer-wise adap-
tive compression parameter selection (Markov et al. 2024).
This paper studies budgeted transmission allocation in fed-
erated uploads, namely deciding which layers or parame-
ter blocks merit transmission under extreme uplink budgets,
rather than merely applying uniform or layer-wise compres-
sion to existing gradient updates.
Parameter Efficient Updates in Federated
Learning
Parameter-efficient fine-tuning provides another approach for
communication-constrained federated learning. LoRA sig-
nificantly reduces trainable parameters by freezing main
models and injecting low-rank trainable matrices (Hu et al.
2022), a mechanism initially used for large model fine-tuning
but naturally suitable as lightweight update carriers in feder-
ated communication. FLoCoRA introduces LoRA into fed-
erated training and further reduces communication costs by
combining quantisation, showing low-rank adapters serve
as strong communication compression baselines (Grativol
et al. 2024). Recent works also study federated fine-tuning
with heterogeneous LoRA rank, for example, HetLoRA al-
lows different clients to use different ranks and designs cor-
responding aggregation strategies (Cho et al. 2024). Such
methods typically treat adapter structures or rank as part
of model design, while this paper treats low-rank adapters
as selectable and encodable transmission units, focusing on
jointly allocating rank, bit width, and upload decisions across
different layers given single-round uplink budgets.
Federated Tabular Learning and Tabular
Modeling
Recently, diffusion models have been applied to tabular mod-
elling: TabDDPM proves that diffusion models can handle
continuous and discrete mixed-type tabular data, outper-
forming several GAN/VAE alternatives on multiple tabular
benchmarks (Kotelnikov et al. 2023). In federated scenar-
ios, FedTabDiff extends tabular diffusion models to multiple
client data owners, enabling collaborative mixed-type tabular
generative model training without centralising raw data (Sat-
tarov, Schreyer, and Borth 2024), and DP FedTabDiff further
combines differential privacy with federated tabular diffusion
(Sattarov, Schreyer, and Borth 2025). These works focus on
tabular generative model construction and training, whereas
this paper focuses on communication allocation problems
in federated tabular learning and synthesis: how to allocate
transmission resources across different layers or parameter


Figure 1: Overview of the Layer-wise Budgeted Adaptive Transmission (LBAT) framework. LBAT evaluates layer-wise sensi-
tivity locally and employs an exact-byte dynamic programming allocator to determine the optimal rank and bit configuration
(r∗
l , b∗
l ) under a strict communication budget B.
blocks given byte budgets, thereby improving utility retention
capability under communication-constrained conditions.
Methodology
This paper asks: when clients can upload extremely few bytes
per round, which layers or parameter blocks merit trans-
mission the most? LBAT models client uploads as a layer-
wise budget allocation problem. Each transmittable param-
eter block possesses several candidate transmission configu-
rations. Clients select configurations that minimise estimated
losses within given byte budgets, based on local parameter
sensitivities and communication costs. The server uses no
distillation or extra proxy data, executing only sample-size-
weighted aggregation on the received parameter updates.
Budgeted Federated Transmission
Consider federated learning involving N clients. Let the
global transmittable parameter blocks be denoted as
Φ = {Φ1, Φ2, . . . , ΦL},
(1)
where L denotes the number of layers or parameter blocks
participating in LBAT decisions. In round t, the server broad-
casts the current parameters Φt. Client i trains on its local
data Di to obtain local parameters eΦ
t
i. The corresponding
block-level updates are
∆t
i,ℓ= eΦt
i,ℓ−Φt
ℓ,
ℓ= 1, . . . , L.
(2)
In parameter-efficient adapter models, ∆t
i,ℓrepresents the
equivalent weight updates generated by the ℓ-th adapter
block. If the model also contains a few auxiliary parame-
ters that do not participate in LBAT decisions but require
synchronisation (e.g., categorical embeddings or decoding
heads), we treat them as ordinary federated parameters and
deduct their communication volume from the current round’s
total budget. Thus, LBAT acts strictly on the remaining ef-
fective budget ¯Bt
i.
For each block ℓ, the client constructs a finite candidate
set Ot
i,ℓ. A candidate o ∈Ot
i,ℓrepresents a specific transmis-
sion configuration, defined by hyperparameters such as the
retained rank r and the quantisation bit-width b. We denote
the communication cost of this candidate in bytes as Ci,ℓ(o),
and the server-decoded approximate update as b∆t
i,ℓ(o). We
measure the candidate transmission distortion using the nor-
malised reconstruction error:
Et
i,ℓ(o) =
∆t
i,ℓ−b∆t
i,ℓ(o)

2
F
∆t
i,ℓ

2
F + ε
,
(3)
where ε > 0 is a numerical stability term to prevent division
by zero. If a candidate o signifies not uploading this block at
all, then Ci,ℓ(o) = 0 and b∆t
i,ℓ(o) = 0.


Sensitivity-Aware Objective
Different parameter blocks impact the final utility differently.
Therefore, LBAT maintains a sensitivity score αt
i,ℓfor each
block to measure the relative cost of its compression error.
This weighting is motivated by block-level perturbation anal-
ysis. Let the compression error be δt
i,ℓ= b∆t
i,ℓ(o)−∆t
i,ℓ. As-
suming the objective function F satisfies block-wise smooth-
ness, for a small perturbation δℓ, we have:
F(Φ + δℓ) ≤F(Φ) + ⟨∇ΦℓF(Φ), δℓ⟩+ Lℓ
2 ∥δℓ∥2
F . (4)
When the model approaches a local minimum, or assuming
the compression error direction is approximately orthogo-
nal to the gradient, the impact of the first-order term is di-
minished. The utility drop caused by compression is then
heuristically bounded by the second-order term Lℓ
2 ∥δℓ∥2
F.
To approximate Lℓor the block-wise importance without
incurring extra backward passes, LBAT reuses the gradient
statistics naturally generated during local training. The sen-
sitivity is updated online via an exponential moving average:
αt
i,ℓ←ραt−1
i,ℓ+ (1 −ρ)
gt
i,ℓ
2
F ,
(5)
where ρ ∈[0, 1), and gt
i,ℓis the accumulated gradient statistic
of block ℓduring the round t local training.
Given the candidate sets, costs, distortions, and sensitivi-
ties, client i’s upload decision is formulated as:
min
oi,1,...,oi,L
L
X
ℓ=1
αt
i,ℓEt
i,ℓ(oi,ℓ)
s.t.
L
X
ℓ=1
Ci,ℓ(oi,ℓ) ≤¯Bt
i,
oi,ℓ∈Ot
i,ℓ,
ℓ= 1, . . . , L.
(6)
Unlike uniform rank or uniform quantisation baselines that
rigidly apply identical configurations to all layers, Equa-
tion (6) allows LBAT to adaptively allocate the byte budget
based on layer-wise marginal values.
Solving the Allocation via Dynamic Programming
Since each parameter block must select exactly one config-
uration from a discrete candidate set, Equation (6) forms
a Multiple-Choice Knapsack Problem (MCKP). Let D[ℓ, c]
denote the minimum weighted distortion when processing
the first ℓparameter blocks using no more than c bytes. The
exact-byte dynamic programming recurrence is:
D[ℓ, c] =
min
o∈Ot
i,ℓ
Ci,ℓ(o)≤c

D[ℓ−1, c −Ci,ℓ(o)] + αt
i,ℓEt
i,ℓ(o)
	
.
(7)
We initialize D[0, c] = 0. Finally, we select the optimal state
satisfying c ≤¯Bt
i from D[L, c], obtaining the optimal layer-
wise configurations via backtracking. The overall procedure
is summarised in Algorithm 1.
Task Instances
LBAT is an agnostic transmission-layer algorithm, indepen-
dent of the underlying network architecture. We instantiate it
across two distinct tabular tasks.
Algorithm 1 FedLBAT: Layer wise Budgeted Adaptive
Transmission
Require: Initial parameters Φ0, client set {1, . . . , N},
rounds T, effective byte budget per client ¯Bt
i.
1: for t = 0, 1, . . . , T −1 do
2:
Server samples client subset St and broadcasts Φt.
3:
for each i ∈St in parallel do
4:
Client i trains locally, obtaining block updates
{∆t
i,ℓ}L
ℓ=1 and sensitivities {αt
i,ℓ}L
ℓ=1.
5:
Construct candidate sets {Ot
i,ℓ}L
ℓ=1, evaluating cost
Ci,ℓ(o) and distortion Et
i,ℓ(o) per candidate.
6:
Solve Eq. (6) via exact byte DP (Eq. (7)) to find
optimal configurations {ot,∗
i,ℓ}L
ℓ=1.
7:
Upload compressed updates {b∆t
i,ℓ(ot,∗
i,ℓ)}L
ℓ=1.
8:
end for
9:
Server decodes updates and aggregates by sample
size:
10:
Φt+1 ←Φt +
1
P
j∈St nj
X
i∈St
ni b∆
t
i.
11: end for
12: return ΦT
FedLBAT-Syn.
This
task
applies
LBAT
to
communication-constrained federated tabular modelling.
Clients locally train a tabular diffusion model where
continuous and categorical features are encoded into a
unified latent space z0. The local denoising objective is:
Lsyn = Et,ϵ∼N (0,I) ∥ϵ −ϵθ(zt, t)∥2
2 + λLcat,
(8)
where ϵθ is the noise-prediction network and Lcat is the
categorical reconstruction loss. LBAT acts exclusively on
the model updates during transmission without altering this
specific generative loss.
FedLBAT-Pred.
To verify that LBAT is not tied strictly
to generative evaluators, we also apply it to standard tabu-
lar prediction. For binary classification, clients optimise the
standard Binary Cross-Entropy (BCE) loss:
Lpred = −1
|B|
X
(x,y)∈B
h
y log σ(hθ(x))
+ (1 −y) log (1 −σ(hθ(x)))
i
.
(9)
Following local training, LBAT applies the identical bud-
geted transmission selection to the predictive model’s pa-
rameter updates.
Experimental Setup
Datasets and Federated Scenarios
We evaluate LBAT on three binary tabular benchmarks
covering demographic, financial, and medical domains:
Adult(Becker and Kohavi 1996), Credit Default(Yeh and
Lien 2009), and Cardio(Sulianova 2019). We reserve 20% of
each dataset for testing and distribute the rest among N = 20


clients using a Dirichlet label skew partition with α = 0.3
combined with quantity skew. This creates severe sample size
and label heterogeneity. Each communication round samples
4 clients. We deploy LBAT in two distinct settings. The pri-
mary setting Syn trains a federated tabular diffusion model
based on TabDDPM and FedTabDiff (Kotelnikov et al. 2023;
Sattarov, Schreyer, and Borth 2024) and evaluates generated
tables via the Train on Synthetic Test on Real (TSTR) pro-
tocol. The auxiliary setting Real applies the same budgeted
transmission policy to a tabular MLP predictor. This confirms
our framework is broadly applicable to standard predictive
models rather than just synthetic data evaluators.
Baselines and Evaluation Protocol
We define the 1.00× full update budget as transmitting
all adapter blocks at maximum rank and highest precision
alongside synchronised auxiliary parameters. Our experi-
ments test five relative upload budgets ranging from 0.05×
to 1.00×. We compare FedLBAT against five baseline meth-
ods. Uniform-Rank assigns the same retained rank to all
layers. Uniform-Quant applies a uniform bit width across
layers. FLoCORA-style implements a fixed parameter ef-
ficient compression strategy (Hu et al. 2022; Grativol et al.
2024). FedLAMA adaptively adjusts the temporal aggrega-
tion intervals of different layers to reduce communication
(Lee, Zhang, and Avestimehr 2023). FedAvg-Full trans-
mits the complete adapter update (McMahan et al. 2017).
We also include centralised and Train on Real Test on Real
(TRTR) oracles as upper bounds. For the synthetic track,
our primary metric is TRTR normalised utility computed
as (AUCTSTR −0.5)/(AUCTRTR −0.5). We additionally
evaluate marginal Wasserstein distance correlation error la-
bel gap and categorical support. The real prediction track
reports test AUC and F1. All main results are averaged over
three random seeds.
Results
We organise the results around four questions: (i) whether
FedLBAT improves the communication–utility frontier un-
der extreme upload budgets; (ii) whether its advantage is con-
sistent across datasets and budget regimes; (iii) what layer-
wise allocation policy LBAT learns; and (iv) whether the
same transmission principle transfers to real tabular predic-
tion. Unless otherwise stated, we report TRTR-normalized
utility for the synthetic track, so that utility scores are com-
parable across datasets with different real-data predictability.
Communication and Utility Tradeoffs Under
Extreme Budgets
Figure 2 shows the communication–utility frontier under five
upload budgets from 0.05× to 1.00× full update. FedL-
BAT consistently forms a better frontier than uniform and
FLoCORA-style baselines across Adult, Credit Default, and
Cardio. The advantage is most pronounced in the extreme-
budget interval from 0.05× to 0.25× full update. This sup-
ports the central claim of this paper: when only a small frac-
tion of the full update can be transmitted, uniformly assigning
the same rank or bit width to all layers wastes communication
Figure 2: Communication–utility frontier. The horizontal
axis is upload budget normalised by full update, and the
vertical axis is TRTR-normalized utility. The margin strip
below each panel shows the average utility gain of FedLBAT
over the strongest communication-constrained peer. FedL-
BAT achieves a stronger frontier across all three datasets,
particularly in the 0.05×–0.25× extreme-budget range.
budget, while layer-wise budget allocation preserves more
task-relevant information.
Consistency Across Budgets and Datasets
Table 1 provides a detailed budget dataset view of FedL-
BAT dominance. Each margin is computed as FedLBAT mi-
nus the strongest non-FedLBAT communication-constrained
peer under the same dataset and budget. FedLBAT obtains
positive margins in 14 out of 15 dataset budget mean cells.
The largest average margins appear at 0.05× and 0.10×
where the upload budget is most restrictive. Across seed-
level comparisons, FedLBAT achieves 37 wins 5 ties and 3
losses. These results indicate that FedLBAT’s advantage is
not caused by a single favourable dataset or budget point but
instead appears consistently across the full budget sweep.
Figure 3 visualises the same conclusion as a dominance at-
las. Each cell corresponds to one dataset and one budget ratio.
The colour indicates the average utility margin of FedLBAT
over competing communication-constrained baselines, and
the text reports seed-level win/tie/loss counts. The weakest
region appears around 0.50× on Adult, where FedLBAT ties
the strongest peer across seeds; even there, the mean mar-
gin remains positive. Overall, the dominance atlas confirms
that LBAT’s advantage is systematic rather than the result of
isolated favourable cases.
Interpretability of Adaptive Budget Allocation
Figure 4 examines what LBAT actually learns. Panel A
shows the fraction of the adapter budget assigned to each
block. Panel B shows the rank–bit configurations selected
under different budgets. Panel C compares layer-wise sensi-
tivity with the final normalised layer share. The allocation is
clearly non-uniform: LBAT does not simply spread the bud-
get evenly across layers. As the budget increases from 0.05×
to 1.00×, selected ranks and bit widths increase, but the rel-
ative budget shares remain layer-dependent. Moreover, the
positive correlation between sensitivity and allocated share
(r = 0.52) indicates that LBAT’s local sensitivity proxy is


Budget
Adult
∆
Adult
W/T/L
Credit
∆
Credit
W/T/L
Cardio
∆
Cardio
W/T/L
Mean
∆
0.05×
+0.273 (+17.1%)
3/0/0
+0.334 (+15.8%)
3/0/0
+0.133 (+6.9%)
2/0/1
+0.247 (+13.3%)
0.10×
+0.182 (+10.6%)
3/0/0
+0.325 (+15.0%)
3/0/0
+0.089 (+4.4%)
3/0/0
+0.199 (+10.0%)
0.25×
+0.231 (+14.4%)
3/0/0
+0.120 (+4.9%)
3/0/0
-0.012 (-0.6%)
2/0/1
+0.113 (+6.2%)
0.50×
+0.032 (+1.6%)
0/3/0
+0.117 (+4.9%)
3/0/0
+0.073 (+3.8%)
2/0/1
+0.074 (+3.5%)
1.00×
+0.061 (+3.5%)
3/0/0
+0.363 (+16.8%)
2/1/0
+0.124 (+6.6%)
2/1/0
+0.183 (+9.0%)
All
–
12/3/0
–
14/1/0
–
11/1/3
+0.163 (+8.4%)
Table 1: Detailed dominance summary across all upload budgets. For each dataset–budget cell, ∆is FedLBAT minus the strongest
non-FedLBAT peer in TRTR-normalized utility; parenthesised values report the relative TSTR-AUC gain, 100(AFedLBAT −
Apeer)/Apeer, computed from unrounded three-seed mean AUCs. W/T/L reselects the strongest peer within each matched seed
(|∆s| ≤10−6 is a tie), while Mean percentages macro-average the corresponding cellwise AUC gains.
Figure 3: Dominance atlas across datasets and budgets.
Cell colors denote FedLBAT’s average utility margin against
the strongest non-FedLBAT communication baseline. Cell
text reports seed-level win/tie/loss counts. FedLBAT obtains
positive mean margins in all 14 dataset–budget cells.
aligned with its final transmission decisions. This provides
evidence that the algorithm learns a meaningful parameter-
block value allocation, rather than merely acting as another
uniform compression rule.
Data Quality and Distribution Fidelity Diagnostics
High downstream utility is only meaningful if the gener-
ated tabular distribution remains faithful. Figure 5 therefore
reports utility–fidelity and data-quality diagnostics. FedL-
BAT achieves the highest average normalised utility while
maintaining competitive marginal Wasserstein distance, cor-
relation error, label gap, and full categorical support. In
contrast, FLoCORA-style compression shows substantially
weaker utility, higher Wasserstein distance, and lower cate-
gorical support. This suggests that FedLBAT’s utility gain
does not simply come from overfitting the downstream clas-
sifier; it also preserves important tabular distributional prop-
erties.
Generalization to Real Tabular Prediction
Although our main evaluation focuses on communication-
constrained tabular modelling, LBAT is designed as a generic
layer-wise transmission policy. We therefore also validate it
on real tabular prediction. Table 2 summarises results across
the synthetic TSTR track and the real prediction track. On
Figure 4: LBAT allocation anatomy. A: adapter-budget mix
across blocks; B: selected rank–bit schedule; C: correlation
between sensitivity and normalised layer share. LBAT allo-
cates more communication to sensitive blocks and increases
rank/bit adaptively as the budget grows.
the synthetic track, FedLBAT consistently improves over the
strongest non-FedLBAT peer across low, medium, and full-
budget regimes, with AUC gains of +0.0778, +0.0489, and
+0.0534, respectively. On the real prediction track, FedL-
BAT is essentially tied with the strongest peer baseline.
This indicates that LBAT does not degrade standard pre-
dictive federated learning, while its largest gains arise in the
more difficult tabular modelling setting where layer values
are more heterogeneous and uniform compression is more
likely to waste budget.
Table 3 confirms that both adaptive budget allocation and
gradient-based layer sensitivity are crucial for FedLBAT’s
performance under extreme compression. Removing either
component, or relying on random allocation, causes signifi-
cant AUC drops across datasets, validating our value-guided
dynamic programming design.
Discussion
Our results indicate that, under extreme budgets, the key issue
is how scarce bytes are allocated rather than how aggressively
every update is compressed. Uniform-Rank and Uniform-
Quant impose the same configuration across blocks, while
FLoCORA-style compression follows a fixed low-rank pol-
icy. FedLAMA adapts when layers are aggregated, but not
how rank and precision are assigned within a round. FedL-


Track Budget Group
FedLBAT
Best Peer
∆AUC Cells Won
Syn.
0.05/0.10×
0.686 ± 0.081 0.608 ± 0.075 +0.0778
6/6
Syn.
0.25/0.50×
0.685 ± 0.096 0.636 ± 0.095 +0.0489
6/6
Syn.
1.00×
0.670 ± 0.080 0.616 ± 0.118 +0.0534
3/3
Real
0.05/0.10×
0.811 ± 0.068 0.811 ± 0.069 -0.0005
0/6
Real
0.25/0.50×
0.810 ± 0.070 0.812 ± 0.068 -0.0021
2/6
Real
1.00×
0.810 ± 0.073 0.811 ± 0.071 -0.0010
1/3
Table 2: Cross-track AUC summary. Syn. denotes the synthetic TSTR track; Real denotes the real tabular prediction track.
Best Peer is the strongest non-FedLBAT communication-constrained baseline within each budget group. Boldface indicates the
higher mean AUC in each row, determined from the unrounded results.
Variant
Ablated
Component
Budget
Adult
Credit
Cardio
Avg.
AUC
∆vs.
Full
Full FedLBAT
None
0.05× 0.755 ± 0.056 0.703 ± 0.037 0.642 ± 0.050 0.700
–
w/o layer sensitivity Layer sensitivity
0.05× 0.755 ± 0.058 0.655 ± 0.035 0.598 ± 0.048 0.669 -0.031
w/o drop-loss calib. Drop-loss calibration
0.05× 0.755 ± 0.052 0.646 ± 0.041 0.601 ± 0.055 0.667 -0.033
w/o adaptive alloc.
Budgeted allocation
0.05× 0.755 ± 0.061 0.540 ± 0.039 0.588 ± 0.047 0.628 -0.072
Random allocation
Value-guided allocation 0.05× 0.689 ± 0.054 0.609 ± 0.034 0.568 ± 0.052 0.622 -0.078
Table 3: Ablation study of FedLBAT under the strict 0.05× communication budget. Removing adaptive allocation, layer
sensitivity, or drop-loss calibration consistently degrades performance, validating the value-guided dynamic-programming
design. Boldface marks the best mean in each column, with ties retained at the displayed precision.
Figure 5: Utility and data-quality diagnostics. Left: utility–
fidelity tradeoff. Right: relative quality scorecard. FedLBAT
achieves the strongest utility while keeping distributional
fidelity and categorical support competitive with or better
than uniform baselines.
BAT instead compares candidate costs and distortions, then
directs capacity toward blocks whose errors matter more.
The moderate alignment between sensitivity and allocated
share supports this mechanism, although it is not a causal
guarantee.
The two evaluation tracks clarify when this allocation mat-
ters. Real prediction is close to saturation, so compressed
updates retain enough discriminative information; FedLBAT
is therefore largely tied with the strongest peers. Synthetic
tabular modelling is less forgiving because it must preserve
label structure, mixed-type dependencies, fidelity, and down-
stream predictability together. Uniform baselines retain fi-
delity but lower utility, whereas FLoCORA-style compres-
sion shows label and coverage failures. These patterns sug-
gest that LBAT is useful when parameter-block values are
heterogeneous. More broadly, LBAT complements quantisa-
tion, low-rank approximation, and temporal aggregation by
treating them as candidate actions in a per-round allocation
problem.
We note three limitations. First, expanding LBAT to se-
quential vision or foundation models requires exploration be-
yond tabular benchmarks. Second, our empirical sensitivity
score is an efficient proxy rather than a formal utility guar-
antee, leaving room for stronger valuation methods. Third,
although LBAT reduces transmitted information, it lacks for-
mal privacy guarantees, making integration with differential
privacy and client fairness important future directions.
Conclusion
We introduced LBAT to address communication bottlenecks
in federated learning. Our work demonstrates that the pri-
mary challenge under extreme upload budgets is not merely
how aggressively to compress an update. Instead, the core
bottleneck lies in how to distribute limited communication
resources across different parameter blocks. LBAT success-
fully transforms federated communication from a uniform
compression paradigm into a budgeted value allocation prob-
lem. By utilising local sensitivity estimates and a dynamic
programming allocator, LBAT prioritises bandwidth for lay-
ers that dominate downstream utility. Our empirical evalua-
tion confirms that this adaptive allocation significantly im-
proves utility while maintaining high data quality.


References
Albasyoni, A.; Safaryan, M.; Condat, L.; and Richtárik, P.
2020. Optimal gradient compression for distributed and fed-
erated learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.03246.
Alistarh, D.; Grubic, D.; Li, J.; Tomioka, R.; and Vojnovic,
M. 2017. QSGD: Communication-efficient SGD via gradient
quantization and encoding. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 30.
Babakniya, S.; Elkordy, A. R.; Ezzeldin, Y. H.; Liu, Q.; Song,
K.-B.; El-Khamy, M.; and Avestimehr, S. 2023. Slora: Fed-
erated parameter efficient fine-tuning of language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06522.
Becker, B.; and Kohavi, R. 1996. Adult Dataset. UCI Ma-
chine Learning Repository. DOI: 10.24432/C5XW20.
Bonawitz, K.; Eichner, H.; Grieskamp, W.; Huba, D.; Inger-
man, A.; Ivanov, V.; Kiddon, C.; Konečn`y, J.; Mazzocchi,
S.; McMahan, B.; et al. 2019. Towards federated learning at
scale: System design. Proceedings of machine learning and
systems, 1: 374–388.
Cho, Y. J.; Liu, L.; Xu, Z.; Fahrezi, A.; and Joshi, G. 2024.
Heterogeneous lora for federated fine-tuning of on-device
foundation models. In Proceedings of the 2024 conference on
empirical methods in natural language processing, 12903–
12913.
Dong, Z.; Yao, Z.; Arfeen, D.; Gholami, A.; Mahoney,
M. W.; and Keutzer, K. 2020.
Hawq-v2: Hessian aware
trace-weighted quantization of neural networks. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 33: 18518–18529.
Grativol, L.; Leonardon, M.; Muller, G.; Fresse, V.; and
Arzel, M. 2024. FLoCoRA: Federated learning compression
with low-rank adaptation. In 2024 32nd European Signal
Processing Conference (EUSIPCO), 1786–1790. IEEE.
Hu, E. J.; Shen, Y.; Wallis, P.; Allen-Zhu, Z.; Li, Y.; Wang, S.;
Wang, L.; Chen, W.; et al. 2022. Lora: Low-rank adaptation
of large language models. Iclr, 1(2): 3.
Kairouz, P.; and McMahan, H. B. 2021. Advances and open
problems in federated learning. Foundations and trends in
machine learning, 14(1-2): 1–210.
Karimireddy, S. P.; Kale, S.; Mohri, M.; Reddi, S.; Stich,
S.; and Suresh, A. T. 2020. Scaffold: Stochastic controlled
averaging for federated learning. In International conference
on machine learning, 5132–5143. PMLR.
Konečn`y, J.; McMahan, H. B.; Yu, F. X.; Richtárik, P.;
Suresh, A. T.; and Bacon, D. 2016.
Federated learning:
Strategies for improving communication efficiency. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1610.05492.
Kotelnikov, A.; Baranchuk, D.; Rubachev, I.; and Babenko,
A. 2023. Tabddpm: Modelling tabular data with diffusion
models. In International conference on machine learning,
17564–17579. PMLR.
Lee, S.; Zhang, T.; and Avestimehr, A. S. 2023. Layer-wise
adaptive model aggregation for scalable federated learning.
In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence, volume 37, 8491–8499.
Li, T.; Sahu, A. K.; Zaheer, M.; Sanjabi, M.; Talwalkar, A.;
and Smith, V. 2020. Federated optimization in heterogeneous
networks. Proceedings of Machine learning and systems, 2:
429–450.
Lin, Y.; Han, S.; Mao, H.; Wang, Y.; and Dally, W. J.
2017. Deep gradient compression: Reducing the commu-
nication bandwidth for distributed training. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1712.01887.
Markov, I.; Alimohammadi, K.; Frantar, E.; and Alistarh, D.
2024. L-greco: Layerwise-adaptive gradient compression for
efficient data-parallel deep learning. Proceedings of Machine
Learning and Systems, 6: 312–324.
McMahan, B.; Moore, E.; Ramage, D.; Hampson, S.; and
y Arcas, B. A. 2017. Communication-efficient learning of
deep networks from decentralized data. In Artificial intelli-
gence and statistics, 1273–1282. Pmlr.
Reisizadeh, A.; Mokhtari, A.; Hassani, H.; Jadbabaie, A.;
and Pedarsani, R. 2020. Fedpaq: A communication-efficient
federated learning method with periodic averaging and quan-
tization. In International conference on artificial intelligence
and statistics, 2021–2031. PMLR.
Sattarov, T.; Schreyer, M.; and Borth, D. 2024. Fedtabd-
iff: Federated learning of diffusion probabilistic models for
synthetic mixed-type tabular data generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.06263.
Sattarov, T.; Schreyer, M.; and Borth, D. 2025. Federated
Diffusion Modeling with Differential Privacy for Tabular
Data Synthesis. In 2025 3rd International Conference on
Federated Learning Technologies and Applications (FLTA),
286–293. IEEE.
Sulianova, S. 2019. Cardiovascular Disease dataset. Kaggle.
Yang, Q.; Liu, Y.; Chen, T.; and Tong, Y. 2019. Federated
machine learning: Concept and applications. ACM Transac-
tions on Intelligent Systems and Technology (TIST), 10(2):
1–19.
Yeh, I.-C.; and Lien, C.-H. 2009. The comparisons of data
mining techniques for the predictive accuracy of probabil-
ity of default of credit card clients. Expert Systems with
Applications, 36(2): 2473–2480.
Zhang, Q.; Chen, M.; Bukharin, A.; Karampatziakis, N.; He,
P.; Cheng, Y.; Chen, W.; and Zhao, T. 2023. Adalora: Adap-
tive budget allocation for parameter-efficient fine-tuning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.10512.
