Pincer: Resource Authorization for Agents using a Digital Twin
Mayank Rathee1
Alexander Stepanov1
Shalin Madabhavi2
Jinhao Zhu1
Raluca Ada Popa1
Ion Stoica1
1UC Berkeley
2Foothill High School
Abstract
Coding agents have become increasingly long-horizon, au-
tonomous, reliant on general-purpose shell and maintain their
own persistent memory for self-improvement. While these ca-
pabilities have made the agents powerful, they have also made
them harder to defend against external adversaries. Defenses
that restrict this architecture—typed tools, information-flow
control, or policy prediction engines—give up too much func-
tionality to be adopted. Agents deployed today (e.g. Claude,
Codex) rely on a combination of user-mediated and auto-
mode sandboxing as their primary defense. In user-mediated
sandboxing, user-maintained policies decay over time and
repeated permission requests cause user fatigue, while auto
mode’s tool-call classifiers learn no user-specific policy and
are not meant to defend against adversarial setups.
Pincer is a new defense that operates at the resource layer
and works alongside existing defenses at the tool-call layer
like the auto mode. At the core of Pincer lies a digital twin, an
isolated-context model that automatically learns and enforces
dynamic user-specific least-privilege policies. The digital twin
keeps continually learning the user’s preferences allowing it
to act as the user’s proxy for the agent’s permission requests.
To emulate the learning phase, we propose a new user-
centric dataset with examples following a multi-day transcript
of user-agent interaction. Our evaluation shows that Pincer
performs strongly on both security and utility in comparison
to several baselines which includes variants of LLM judges
and adaptations of Conseca (HotOS ’25). We highlight attack
types where Pincer’s design leads to a significant security
improvement compared to all other baselines, while outper-
forming the baselines even for other types of attacks.
1
Introduction
Coding agents [3, 40, 42, 43] have become increasingly au-
tonomous, memory-driven, and reliant on general purpose
computer-use tools like shell. These capabilities have ush-
ered in a new era of computing with powerful automation,
while also opening the door for vulnerabilities and attack-
ers [5,24,27,41,55]. Researchers in both academia and in-
dustry have been looking for ways to make agents safer while
balancing their usefulness.
In academia, there has been a major push towards strong
defenses that in turn heavily restrict the agent’s capabili-
ties [13,14,21,32,48,53,56]. On the other hand, the focus in
industry has been towards defenses that work well for most
day-to-day use and preserving the functionality of agents as
much as possible [3,4,29,40,42]. Sandboxed execution with
policies over the agent’s privileges, user-mediated permis-
sions, and tool-call classifiers define these defenses. However,
their effectiveness tends to decay over time (privilege creep
and permission fatigue) and deviation from production traf-
fic, e.g. when an adversary wants to take over the agent, can
cause further failures [30]. In this work, we focus primarily
on deployed agents and their existing defenses.
We present a new defense that plugs directly into today’s
agents and targets the resource layer that sits behind tools;
for example files, web, etc. Central to our design is an entity
we call the digital twin that learns user behavior over time to
automatically infer which resources should be accessible to
the agent for any given task. It additionally provides defense-
in-depth by staying compatible with existing defenses that are
already deployed. We call the system that composes an off-
the-shelf agent with our defense Pincer1. Our contributions
are as follows:
1. Pincer, an agentic system that learns user behavior and
automatically authorizes resources for the agent on a per
task basis.
2. A user-centric synthetic dataset containing a coherent
set of examples from different users’ interaction with
their agents over several days. The examples contain
both attacks and benign workflows. To the best of our
knowledge, it is the first dataset of this kind.
1Since pincers offer finer control than claws, we use Pincer as our system
name to differentiate from less safe agents like OpenClaw.
1
arXiv:2610.02569v1  [cs.CR]  1 Oct 2026


3. Implementation and evaluation of Pincer on top of a
lightweight off-the-shelf agent NanoClaw [40].
1.1
Technical Overview
Deployed agents today run in a sandbox where a policy file,
maintained by the user, describes what privileges the agent
gets within the sandbox including tools it can use, whitelisted
commands, and resources it can access. Whenever the agent
hits the wall of the sandbox, a permission request is issued to
the user specific to where the agent is stuck. Given this user-
mediated sandboxing, two challenges show up. First, policies
can become over-permissive over time as permissions accu-
mulate because users rarely revoke permissions they might
have granted under a deadline; this is known as privilege
creep [4, 18]. Secondly, repeated permission requests lead
to permission fatigue for the users causing their scrutiny to
decrease over time [19, 36]. In response to these concerns,
Anthropic released the auto mode [29] which is a classifier
that sits at the tool-call layer and resolves permission requests
to reduce user fatigue. While it works well for regular usage,
recent work on stress-testing found that it allows a majority
of unsafe operations to go through [30]. For example, directly
executing a dangerous command like rm -rf * is blocked
by the classifier, but the same command can be embedded in
a harmlessly named Python file test.py, and the classifier
allows python3 test.py to run. This gives an adversary an
easy way to bypass or fool the classifier. In fact, it is not prac-
tical for any tool-call layer classifier to reason through the
effects of code, especially when the dangerous command is
buried deep in the dependency chain. The same holds even
without code: reasoning through the possible effects of a com-
plex shell command at the tool-call layer can be infeasible.
Moreover, the classifier doesn’t learn user-specific policies; if
the classifier thinks git push is dangerous while the user’s
workflow deems it as no risk, the user has to manually edit
the policy file, otherwise the classifier will keep blocking it.
This is why the problem of privilege creep is left unresolved
by auto mode. We address these challenges in Pincer and
describe our design next.
Privilege creep and permission fatigue.
The primary
cause of privilege creep is policies that don’t adapt over time,
go stale, and become over-permissive, while for permission
fatigue, it is the repeated user involvement. We address both
of these problems by automating the policy management as
well as the permission resolution via a large language model
(LLM) based party called the digital twin. Given a history of
user behavior, the digital twin learns the implicit user-specific
policies, adapts them over time, and steps in when the agent
issues a permission request. As part of this design, we have
to answer two important questions: (1) where in the agentic
workflow the digital twin sits, which also defines the policies
it can enforce, and (2) how to prevent the digital twin from
getting compromised under attacks.
Resource layer instead of tool-call layer.
The digital twin
sits at the resource layer instead of the tool-call layer, i.e. it
gates access to resources, not tools or commands. When the
agent makes a tool-call, it resolves to an underlying resource
and that is where an authorization from the digital twin is
needed, otherwise the tool call simply aborts. This has two
clear advantages. First, we side-step the generally intractable
space of commands and tool calls which prevents our enforce-
ment from becoming ineffective and collapsing under the
size of the enforceable domain. A resource decision, on the
other hand, is over one concrete named object with a small
fixed set of access modes [51] (e.g. reading a file directly
through bash or via python or indirectly through imported
modules vs read/write for a file). Second, the number of tool
calls is typically significantly larger than the resources they
operate over2. Therefore, the token cost of the digital twin is
significantly cheaper at the resource layer. Since the digital
twin sits at the resource layer, it only enforces policies over
resources. The resource layer enforcement doesn’t replace
the need for tool-call layer enforcement because the former is
more coarse-grained; for example it cannot tell if an accessed
file is overwritten with contents of a different accessed file.
Due to this reason, a deployment should employ defense-in-
depth by using Pincer with compatible tool-call layer defenses
like the auto mode in Claude Code [29].
Defending the digital twin from attacks.
The digital twin
is a model that can get compromised if it interacts with un-
trusted content. Once compromised, it can grant unrestricted
access to the agent which can be catastrophic. To mitigate this
threat, Pincer provides architectural separation to the digital
twin by restricting the majority of its input to be only trusted
- consisting of tokens authorized by the user which includes
the user prompts (current and past), the permission requests
granted by the user in the past, or any additional tokens the
user explicitly chooses to authorize. A digital twin, however,
has to accept a limited amount of information that doesn’t
originate from the user. The prime example of this is the
request itself which originates from the agent who may be
under the attacker’s control given its exposure to a myriad of
untrusted content. Pincer sanitizes this information before the
twin (we refer to the digital twin as “twin” going forward)
sees it. In Section 5, we go into detail on subtle ways an at-
tacker can influence the twin’s decision and how we close
that gap.
2Once access to a resource is granted, the access stays for the duration of
the task. Therefore, the number of resource requests from the agent doesn’t
necessarily grow with the task complexity unlike the tool calls.
2


Memory
Tools 
(bash)
Resources
Figure 1: The architecture today’s coding agents have con-
verged on. An LLM drives an autonomous loop over persistent
memory and general-purpose tools and acts on external re-
sources, such as local files, the network, and remote services,
through those tools. The box encloses the components under
the agent’s own control; the user and the resources the agent
acts on sit outside it.
Content-dependent policies.
The information our twin
gets when making a resource decision doesn’t include con-
tents of the resource (e.g. file contents). This is by design to
protect it from getting compromised via untrusted resources
controlled by an attacker. However, due to this, content-based
policies (e.g. a file can only be read if it contains no secrets)
cannot be enforced. To address this limitation, we make the
twin’s decision a conjunction of a few votes, each serving
a very specific function (see Section 5.6 for details). One
of these votes is cast after seeing contents of the requested
resource. A vote based on untrusted file contents always risks
getting compromised and this is where the other votes come
in; they are isolated from free-form untrusted content.
2
System Architecture
Agents deployed to millions of people today [3,42,43] have
all converged to a similar high-level architecture as shown
in Figure 1. The user sends in a prompt to the LLM that con-
trols the agent. The LLM references its memory and starts
working on the user’s task. It has access to a variety of tools
and it uses them to execute the task. The tools interact with
resources like files or the web. The agent runs inside a sand-
box with a user-editable policy, and optionally a classifier
that adjudicates tool calls to reduce the permission burden on
the user whenever a tool call doesn’t find grounding in the
policy [4,29]. As we mentioned before in Section 1, with this
design, agents run into the problems of privilege creep and
permission fatigue without the classifier, while the classifier
doesn’t learn user-specific policies and isn’t effective at mak-
ing safe decisions under atypical situations [30], for example
under attack. Importantly, the classifier addresses permission
fatigue but doesn’t resolve the privilege creep issue; for user-
specific policies, which may change from time to time, the
user has to maintain the policy file and define exceptions for
the classifier.
2.1
Pincer’s Design
Our approach to address these challenges is to bolster the
security of the system at a deeper layer than handled by the
classifier while avoiding both privilege creep and permission
fatigue. The layer we bolster is the resource layer which sits
deeper than the tool call layer, but is also more coarse in its
enforcement potential compared to the tool call layer, and in
deployment, agents should pair it with the tool call classifier.
To automatically learn user-specific policies and prevent priv-
ilege creep, we introduce a digital twin who constantly learns
user preferences and enforces those policies automatically.
System components.
Our system has four classes of com-
ponents:
• LLMs: We have two separate LLMs as part of our sys-
tem: the worker (the main LLM in the agent) and the
twin (a type of LLM judge).
• Special-purpose state: Any state directly maintained by
each LLM. For example the memory maintained by the
worker.
• Tools: Tools used by the worker to perform a task. For
example the shell tool. Our system has a special tool (the
resource request tool) that allows the worker to talk to
the twin via a narrow channel.
• Resources: Any resources that tools access. For example:
files, email, web, etc.
High-level system workflow.
The user provides a prompt
describing the task. The worker performs the task, while the
twin is responsible for resource authorization for the worker.
Given the prompt, the worker accesses its special-purpose
state (a.k.a. the memory) and then calls tools to complete
the task. The tools access resources and if a resource isn’t
authorized for the worker, it uses a special resource-request
tool to make a request for the said resource to the twin. The
twin analyzes the request and may decide to grant or deny it.
If granted, the worker-invoked tools can access the resource.
3
Threat Model and System Goals
Our threat model is summarized in Figure 2 and detailed
below.
Definition 1 (Trusted party: the user). A trusted party or
object is one that is outside the adversary’s control. A trusted
party cannot be compromised by an adversary and any actions
produced by them are deemed trusted. The user is assumed to
be a trusted party.
3


User
Worker
Sanitizer
tool
Twin
Resources
Memory
Twin’s
state
trusted (TCB)
prompt
resource req
resource req
grant / deny
content vote
Attacker
poisons through tools, resources, memory
plants content, names
×
Figure 2: Our threat model.
The adversary.
The adversary can arbitrarily corrupt any-
thing except trusted parties and the trusted computing base
(TCB). We consider a powerful adversary who can arbitrarily
corrupt the worker agent, any third-party tools that the agent
uses, and any of the resources (names as well as content). The
adversary cannot manipulate two channels: the communica-
tion channel from the user to the system and the communica-
tion channel between the twin and the model provider. The
adversary cannot alter the system’s code and cannot modify
its behavior, and it doesn’t control the weights of ML models
used by the system.
Trusted Computing Base (TCB).
We consider the follow-
ing as part of our TCB: First, the twin LLM, with its weights
and inference stack. Second, our system stack which includes
the resource request tool that allows the worker to issue re-
quests to the twin and Pincer’s write isolation for the twin’s
special-purpose state from any untrusted component or the
adversary. Lastly, the operating system kernel and the con-
tainer runtime. All other components lie outside the TCB; for
example, the worker LLM and the shell tool are not in the
TCB.
Definition 2 (Trusted and untrusted context). Fix a finite
alphabet Σ of tokens, where each token is a bit string. A
context is an ordered collection of tokens, i.e. an element of
Σ∗. A trusted context tctx is generated entirely by a trusted
party, while an untrusted context uctx is any context that may
potentially be influenced by an adversary.
Definition 3 (Adversary’s advantage). Let D be a probabilis-
tic decision procedure that takes a context and outputs a grant
or deny decision; we write its input as the parts the context is
composed of, e.g. D(tctx,uctx). For two contexts c1 and c2,
the adversary’s advantage between them w.r.t. D is
AdvD(c1,c2) = |Pr[D(c1) = grant]−Pr[D(c2) = grant]|,
where the probabilities are over the coins of D.
We will show in Section 5 that any decision procedure
implemented by the twin cannot make decisions better than
guessing a coin-flip given just the trusted context as input.
This is because a decision is made over a resource access
request made by the potentially compromised worker which
makes the request itself untrusted. Therefore, without a per-
request authorization from the user, a trusted-only context
cannot be used to make a decision. Therefore, we present
a notion of context that is not trusted, but is not free-form
untrusted either. Such context severely limits the capabilities
of untrusted context, and therefore, we give it its own class.
This context is called advantage-agnostic context and is pro-
duced by a preprocessing function applied to parts (decided by
the application) of the untrusted context. The preprocessing
function’s output must meet certain requirements, as stated
next, for it to be advantage agnostic. The reader should think
of this notion as a type of sanitization; Section 5.4 gives an
instantiation.
Definition 4 (Advantage-agnostic context). Let λ be a secu-
rity parameter, let negl(λ) denote the negligible function, and
let (tctx,uctx) be a context split into its trusted and untrusted
parts (Definition 2), where uctx is the untrusted context as
received, before any processing. The application selects the
part uctxp ⊆uctx that it will preprocess and parses it into
units: a unit is a single token or a group of tokens, such as one
component of a file path. For a map g : Σ∗→Σ∗, write uctxg
p
for uctxp with every occurrence of every unit replaced by its
image under g. Let P : Σ∗×Σ∗→Σ∗be a (possibly random-
ized) preprocessing function and let actx = P(tctx,uctxp).
Then actx is advantage-agnostic if for every probabilistic
polynomial time (PPT) decision procedure D, sampling the
coins of P and drawing f uniformly from the family of all
functions Σ∗→Σλ gives
AdvD
 (tctx,P(tctx,uctxp),⊥), (tctx,P(tctx,uctx f
p),⊥)

≤negl(λ),
4


where ⊥denotes empty.
Note that Definition 4 also provides a method to convert
parts of untrusted context into advantage-agnostic context
by destroying their semantic meaning via a pseudorandom
function (PRF) (see Section 5.4 for more details). Advantage-
agnostic tokens are not completely meaningless. They still
carry limited information and are used by our system to match
the worker’s resource request to prior requests. Converting
parts of untrusted context to advantage agnostic allows an
agentic system to mitigate certain attack types like misleading
filenames. This is why we place them as lying between trusted
and untrusted. A subtle distinction that the notion of advan-
tage agnosticism captures is the difference between hashes
(deterministic maps) vs PRFs. A hashed sub-context doesn’t
meet our notion and that reflects in the ability of an LLM to
invert the hash for commonly used words from its pre-training
exposure. There are other representations of filenames that
may achieve practically-similar effects to advantage agnos-
ticism when D is an LLM: representing filenames with their
inodes, for example. The reason we use a randomly chosen
function to define advantage agnosticism is so that we don’t
have to worry about the probability distribution of an LLM or
what capability it may have, etc. because our result applies to
all PPT decision procedures.
Definition 5 (Grant integrity). Let D be a decision proce-
dure for an authorization decision, and write D(·;r) for D
run on random tape r. A procedure D over trusted context
tctx, advantage-agnostic context actx, and untrusted context
uctx has grant integrity if D(tctx,actx,uctx;r) = grant =⇒
D(tctx,actx,⊥;r) = grant for every r, so that both sides de-
note the same invocation, where ⊥denotes empty and con-
texts are defined in Definitions 2 and 4. This means that an
adversary cannot get a grant unless the decision procedure
would grant given only the trusted context and advantage-
agnostic context.
Our goal in this work is the following:
Goal 1. If Pincer grants a resource request then the trusted
and advantage-agnostic contexts alone would also grant it:
D(tctx,actx,uctx;r) = grant =⇒LLM(tctx,actx;r) = grant.
This
is
grant
integrity
(Definition
5)
with
D(tctx,actx,⊥;r) := LLM(tctx,actx;r), where
LLM
is
a pre-trained model3.
Other assumptions and non-goals.
We assume that the ad-
versary has zero control over the user and the user makes safe
decisions. LLM hallucinations aren’t considered untrusted
even though they may cause an attack to succeed. Our goal
in this work is not to achieve full protection from all attacks,
3Fixing the right-hand side to a model evaluation excludes the degenerate
procedures that always grant or always deny.
but rather to make agents safer by raising the bar for an attack
to be successful and providing defense-in-depth while being
formal about our guarantees. Building agents that cannot be
compromised is an open area of research as we discuss next.
4
Related Work
Attacks on agents.
There are three main classes of attacks
on agents [37, 58, 70]: (1) Direct Prompt Injection (DPI) is
a class of attacks where malicious instructions are placed
directly into the user’s message to the agent [47], (2) Indirect
Prompt Injection (IPI) is a class of attacks where the mali-
cious instruction enters the agent’s context indirectly, i.e. as
response to a tool it invokes [23], and (3) Memory Poisoning
is a class of persistent attacks where the malicious instruction
is injected into the memory that the agent maintains for self-
improvement [44,71] (Figure 1), and therefore, the attack can
activate across future sessions when the agent references its
memory [10,46,64]. For memory poisoning attacks, one line
of work requires the attacker to interact with the agent as a
user, so the planting of poison uses DPI as the vector [16],
while other works consider the more realistic IPI vector of
planting the poison in the environment the agent reads while
serving a benign request [49,54,67,75]. Attack taxonomies
that are specific and fine-grained to skills, tools, and protocol
ecosystems have also been studied in the context of coding
agents [39].
Existing defenses at the system level.
Several strong de-
fenses have been proposed to make agents safer by restricting
them architecturally. However, they typically take away the
core capabilities of today’s agents (Figure 1); many of these
designs are systematized in recent work [7]: Restricting the
autonomy of agents by separating control flow from untrusted
data or introducing a trusted planner [13,14,21,32,48] defeats
the injection but it equally forbids benign context-dependent
control flows (e.g. user asking the agent to do the task in their
latest email). For the same reason, defenses that fine-tune the
model to separate instructions in the prompt from data [8]
cannot be used with agents which are routinely expected to
follow instructions embedded in data (e.g. instructions in
your email). Tracking information flow through typed tools
and requiring per-tool policy annotations [13, 14] can help
isolate context across trust domains, but it limits the support
for crucial untyped tools like shell. Disallowing the agent to
maintain a memory based on the context it encounters when
carrying out tasks [14] can prevent memory poisoning attacks,
but it curtails the self-improving capability of the agent (it
cannot learn from past patterns). New architectures that as-
sign a separate LLM model to each tool with strict separation
between tools [62] remain vulnerable to several attacks [32]
and incur a heavy communication overhead between tools.
In summary, these proposals significantly deviate from and
5


don’t compose well with the architecture the deployed agents
use. For a comprehensive treatment of systems security for
agentic computing, refer to Christodorescu et al. [11].
A separate line of work focuses on hardening the prompts
via spotlighting [26] or detecting suspicious sections in the
agent’s context and memory [33,60] as a defense against at-
tacks. However, adaptive attacks have been shown to bypass
such defenses [49]. Defenses in this category are comple-
mentary to our work; however, the extra token cost incurred
from the proactive detection and the lack of robustness against
strong attacks make them unsuitable for several applications.
Enforcing least-privilege policies within the agentic work-
flows is another line of research. Policies for the wide variety
of tasks undertaken by agents can differ significantly from one
task to another and can, for open-ended tasks, be too semantic
for structured policy languages to capture. Prior works focus
on structured policies where either they rely on the user or
another external source to provide such policies [50,52,73], or
predict policies up-front when the user prompt arrives which
would underfit for long-horizon open-ended tasks [56], or
evolve policies as the task progresses but the policy evolu-
tion engine lacks the agent’s working context, which again
causes the predicted policies to underfit [53]. Moreover, the
majority of these proposals simultaneously rely heavily on
structured tools for the policy languages; their expressive
power gets severely limited on untyped shell tools. For typed
tools which naturally organize into an OAuth-like hierarchy
of APIs, least-privilege solvers can be used to evaluate the
agent’s permission as the task progresses [74]. In Pincer, an
important design aspect is that policy is fitted when the agent
surfaces a need, thereby eliminating the need for policy pre-
diction.
Model-level defenses.
Fine-tuning the model to understand
the instruction hierarchy and detect or ignore misaligned in-
structions that conflict with the user’s intent is an ongoing
area of research [9, 20, 31, 57]. Prior work shows reliabil-
ity concerns when it comes to the models understanding the
instruction hierarchy [20], and evaluation on multi-turn in-
teractions and agentic behaviors lies outside the scope of
these works [31]. A recent work traces the difficulty to role
perception itself, i.e. text that imitates a privileged role (like
the user) is internally represented by the model as the role
rather than the tag surrounding that text [68]. Having said
that, the defenses at the model level are complementary to
our work as they provide defense-in-depth to our system-level
defenses. On the other hand, fine-tuning the model to not obey
instructions embedded in data [8] doesn’t work with agents
as mentioned before.
Automating user permission requests.
Wu et al. [63] pre-
dict a user’s permission decisions from their past ones and
establish a premise that Pincer also relies on: these decisions
are individually consistent within a context, and therefore
learnable. However, their scope doesn’t cover computer-use
agents where the decisions are far more contextual and the
resources at stake are themselves untrusted.
Digital twins.
The term digital twin has been used in many
different contexts in the literature [2,12,17,35,61,66]. We
adopt the term because it clearly differentiates an entity with
memory that’s only influenced by the user compared to an
agent whose memory evolves from its environment including
untrusted context [44,45].
Agent-security benchmarks are episodic.
Many agent-
security benchmarks exist [15, 28, 34, 59, 65, 69, 70]; how-
ever, they are episodic and are not a good fit for evaluating
agents from the perspective of a single user’s interaction
with their agent over time. Multi-session memory bench-
marks [25, 38, 72] evaluate long-horizon memory but not
security. Sleeper Memory Poisoning (SMP) [49] constructs
a dataset for multi-session memory poisoning attacks, but
doesn’t offer a complete dataset that can evaluate both secu-
rity and utility, and lacks a long user-centric transcript. To
evaluate Pincer, we develop a user-centric dataset (Section 6)
which comes with a task history that our system uses to learn
user policies. Our security examples are inspired by SMP [49]
and PASB [59].
5
Pincer
Pincer is a system that takes an existing agent and augments it
with a modular and self-improving defense. The defense sits
between tools and resources, and is designed with two secu-
rity principles: complete mediation and least privilege [1,51].
For complete mediation, every access to any resource goes
through a reference monitor (e.g. the OS kernel in our im-
plementation Section 7.1) which ensures the resource is ac-
cessible to the worker invoking the tool, and resource access
can only be granted by an isolated LLM - the twin. For each
resource access request, the twin implements least privilege
which means that it only grants access if it thinks that the
access is necessary for the user’s task. This defense doesn’t
cause permission fatigue for the user because the twin auto-
matically resolves the resource requests and it is compatible
with other defenses like the auto mode [4,29]. Only in cases
where the twin repeatedly denies a request that the worker
genuinely needs, can the twin raise the request to the user for
final approval.
When the worker requests access to a resource from the
twin, the request states the identity of the resource along with
the access type (read, write, create, etc.). This information
isn’t enough for the twin to make an informed decision and
it needs more context. Typically, the more context it has the
more informed it can be. However, large parts of the context
6


are untrusted which can poison the twin’s decision. To address
this problem, we introduce the notion of trusted state.
5.1
Trusted State
Trusted state is a special-purpose state that’s maintained by
the twin and is referenced before making each decision. It
only contains trusted context Definition 2, i.e. context that
comes directly from the trusted party. More specifically, it
has the current and prior user prompts, and any permissions
granted by the user in the past. Given this state, the twin can
learn user behavior and derive user-specific policies, which it
can then add to the trusted state for the future. It also clears
out stale or inconsistent policies from the past. However, it has
a major limitation: the trusted state cannot be used to derive
least-privilege policies. To understand this, let’s consider an
example user prompt:
"Summarize my tax documents"
If the user has given broad read access to the agent or is using
the auto mode [29], then the information about which files are
accessed by the agent is completely missed from the trusted
state. Without access pattern information, the trusted state
doesn’t contain enough information to inform least-privilege
policies. The twin looking at such state doesn’t know where
different resources typically live, which resources are typi-
cally accessed for certain tasks, etc. This is why we need to
admit additional context out of necessity for least-privilege.
5.2
Access Patterns for Least-Privilege
For least-privilege, we add access pattern annotations with
each user prompt in the twin’s state as follows:
"Summarize my tax documents"
Read: /taxes/w2.txt, /taxes/return2025.txt
Pincer collects the access patterns through tool call logs of the
agent and attaches this information to each prompt’s entry in
the twin’s state. With this change, the twin can now effectively
reason over least privilege. We don’t enforce any specific
pattern for the twin to express policies that it derives. This
helps with policies generalizing user behavior across open-
ended situations. In Section 5.6, we describe one exception
to this where we generate a pre-committed policy suggestion
per task in a structured format, while all other policies stay in
natural language.
Note that while access patterns are structured information
(unlike free-form text in resources and other untrusted con-
text), since the access pattern annotations aren’t part of the
trusted state by definition unless the user explicitly autho-
rized each access pattern, we have to be careful about how
the adversary may exploit this information in influencing the
twin’s decision. The accesses granted by the twin for each
user prompt also become part of the twin’s state. The twin’s
state keeps growing over time and keeps recording all histori-
cal and current user prompts and all access patterns made for
those tasks, irrespective of whether the user approved those
accesses or the auto mode classifier did or the twin did (once
the twin is active). Moreover, even more fundamentally, the
worker’s requested path, which is what defines the request that
the twin decides and is input to the twin alongside the twin’s
state, has a similar structure. Both the access pattern anno-
tations and the worker’s request contain information about
resource names and paths; they are both untrusted. There
is one class of attacks we identify that directly exploits this
information as presented next.
5.3
Misleading Resource Name Attack
Consider an attacker who has write access to a git repository
that the user also contributes to. The attacker pushes a file
named taxreturn2025-corrected.txt to the repository.
The user’s local clone pulls these changes as part of a rou-
tine workflow. At some later point, the user asks the agent
"Summarize my tax documents" and the agent looks at the
file named taxreturn2025-corrected.txt and is misled
into thinking that the file is the user’s corrected tax return
misplaced in the project’s directory. It makes a request to
access this file and the twin gets misled the same way and
grants the request. This attack becomes stronger if there is
a historical access pattern in the twin’s state where a similar
access was granted. Another way an attack in this class can
be mounted assuming the worker is under attacker’s control
is the following: the twin wouldn’t typically allow creating
a new file in the tax directory unless the user asks for it, but
the worker can create a file named temp.txt in a different
directory, rename it to w2.txt through a shell command or
hide it in python code (not seen by the twin) and then get
the twin’s permission to access it when working on taxes and
move it to the tax directory via the same method as above.
There are many subtle ways this attack can manifest; our
dataset Section 6 contains examples of this attack.
To mitigate such attacks, we turn to the notion of advantage
agnosticism (Definition 4) defined in Section 3.
5.4
Sanitizing Untrusted State
Denote the twin’s probabilistic4 decision function by D : Σ∗→
{grant,deny}, the trusted context from the trusted state (Sec-
tion 5.1) by tctx, and the untrusted5 access pattern annotations
by uctx. For a given request for resource with name rsrc, the
twin computes the following (untrusted shown in red):
D((tctx,uctx),rsrc)
As we discussed in Section 5.3, the untrusted inputs can be ex-
ploited by the adversary to influence the decision. To mitigate
4LLMs are probabilistic models.
5The attack in Section 5.3 is possible due to the untrusted access patterns.
7


this threat, we perform a sanitization operation that destroys
the semantic meaning in these inputs. To do this formally, we
employ the construction for advantage agnosticism (Defini-
tion 4) from Section 3. Given a PRF whose key is unknown
to the procedure D, it works simply as follows:
• Parse all unique paths from the untrusted uctx,rsrc. Ini-
tialize an empty map M.
• For each
path
(this/is/path), apply
PRF
to
each
of
its
segments
(this, is, path)
sepa-
rately
and replace
each segment with its
PRF
output (a3321a/ddd9dd/77a111). Add the mapping
this/is/path →a3321a/ddd9dd/77a111 to M.
• Replace each path in uctx,rsrc with their mapping from
M. Call the respective sanitized inputs uctx′,rsrc′. The
sanitized inputs are fed into D along with trusted context
as follows: D((tctx,uctx′),rsrc′).
As mentioned before in Section 3, the goal of sanitization
isn’t to remove all information from uctx,rsrc. In fact, infor-
mation that uniquely identifies the requested resource rsrc is
what defines the request that D decides on and removing all
information on uctx would take us back to the twin having
only trusted state. Since the PRF is applied to each segment of
a path separately, this assigns a unique random ID to each seg-
ment which is used by our twin to locate files in the workspace
and the requested resource; files within the same directory
will share the sanitized path prefix. From a security stand-
point, the advantage of this sanitization is that it mitigates the
misleading filename attacks (Section 5.3) as we show in our
evaluation (Section 7.2).
We now explain why our aforementioned sanitization
achieves advantage agnosticism (Definition 4). This follows
from the security of PRF which says that without access to
the PRF key, the output of PRF looks computationally indis-
tinguishable from the output of a randomly chosen function
with the same input and output domain as the PRF. Advantage
agnosticism allows us to formally define a desired property
to expect from the sanitized output and define grant integrity
(Definition 5)6.
5.5
Content-Dependent Policies
In our discussion so far, the twin’s input for a decision only
contains trusted state with sanitized access patterns and the
worker’s resource request. Consider this policy
Access is only allowed to a file if it contains no secrets
6Some weaker forms of sanitization like inodes may work as well in
practice. However, deterministic mappings like using a hash may provide
weaker protection against resource name based attacks because the hashes
for common names are already publicly known and have likely been exposed
to the twin’s model during pretraining.
Such a policy cannot be enforced by the twin unless it can
read the contents of the requested file. However, that informa-
tion is free-form untrusted and directly under the adversary’s
control. Making that part of the twin’s input may allow the
attacker direct control of the twin’s decision. To resolve this
tension, we introduce double voting.
The double voting idea is to have the twin cast 2 sepa-
rate votes on whether the request should be granted. The
first vote is the same as v1 = D((tctx,uctx′),rsrc′) from Sec-
tion 5.4. The second vote additionally feeds the contents of
the requested resource (conts) as well as the worker’s reason
(reasn) why it wants the resource and a transcript of prior
requests from the same session (prior) as inputs to the deci-
sion v2 = D((tctx,uctx′,conts,prior),(rsrc′,reasn)). The fi-
nal decision is a conjunction of the two votes, v1 ∧v2, where
grant = 1 and deny = 0. This keeps the influence of untrusted
content completely separated and restricted to the second vote
which can only be relevant if the first vote already grants.
Figure 3 shows the workflow for a single request.
5.6
Pre-Committed Policies
In the previous section, we introduced content-based deci-
sions as a second vote made by the twin. In this section,
we look at a gap that it overlooks and present mitigations.
While double-voting allows content-based policies and the
worker’s reasoning to be taken into account, it also makes
the final decision vulnerable to scope expansion. The vote
v2 = D((tctx,uctx′,conts,prior),(rsrc′,reasn)) contains file
contents, previous requests, and the worker’s reason for the
requests, all of which can be used by the adversary to grad-
ually expand the scope of the original task without the twin
noticing it. For example, if the user asks to review a file
changelog.txt and apply pending changes to export.py,
and changelog.txt contains an injected, potentially benign-
looking but scope-expanding, sub-task the user never asked
about, then the content-based vote may grant the sub-task’s
resources, especially after a few hops from the original user
prompt. Since scope expansion can be a part of a benign
workflow for open-ended tasks, we introduce a pre-committed
policy suggestion as an additional vote to provide an initial
grounding as the task evolves.
The idea is to produce a policy (denoted by policy) when
the first user prompt for a session arrives before any possi-
ble scope expansion. Given the prompt, the workspace, the
filenames, and the trusted state along with access patterns,
the twin generates a policy stating an initial estimate of what
resources should be accessed and how. The policy is only
meant as a suggestion to allow the system flexibility in adapt-
ing the scope for benign operation. By default, we include
the policy suggestion in a fork of the first vote. The policy
is sanitized, denoted by policy′, after it is generated to keep
it consistent with the sanitized request. We will show later
in this section that the post-generation sanitization operation
8


Pincer system
logs.txt
Memory
"Check logs"
"Check logs" 
POL01, ... 
Prior prompts
Tool 
(resource 
request)
Read: 
58aa1k
Read: 
logs.txt
sudo 
chmod +r logs.txt
Figure 3: End-to-end working of Pincer without pre-committed policies. The user sends a prompt which goes to the worker and
the twin’s state. The worker identifies the resource it wants to access and uses the resource request tool to make a request. The
twin casts two votes: the first vote uses only trusted and sanitized inputs, while the second vote additionally sees the untrusted
file contents. If conjuction of the two votes is a grant, the system updates the access for the worker. The permissions are revoked
after the task is done.
on the policy doesn’t provide protection against resource-
name attacks but it captures important signal and improves
our overall security. Given those reasons, we separate this
into a third vote rather than merging it into the first vote. The
policy schema is shown in Listing 1. This policy is then used
by the twin for future requests in the same session to cast
a third vote v3 = D((tctx,uctx′,policy′),rsrc′). The conjunc-
tion v1 ∧v2 ∧v3 is the final decision. The policy suggestion
can additionally be made part of v2 as well. In our evalua-
tion Section 7.2, we consider two variants of Pincer, both of
which use three votes but differ in whether the policy sug-
gestion is given as input to the content-based vote or not.
Our results indicate that Pincer achieves high utility despite
enforcing a conjunction of the three votes.
We now discuss the reason we separate the policy-based
decision into a separate vote from v1. The post-generation san-
itized policy policy′ isn’t advantage agnostic and that makes
it highly exploitable for filename-based attacks (Section 5.3).
When the twin generates the policy, it decides access for a
list of relevant resources which is based on untrusted context
like the original resource names and access patterns. While
this allows the policy to pick up more signal than what v1
can7, it makes the decision of what goes into the policy a
function of the untrusted context. Due to this, if this signal is
garbled by the randomly-sampled function from Definition 4,
the advantage of the adversary will change significantly. The
reason we choose to generate the policy on untrusted context
rather than on its sanitized version is to capture the additional
7One can sanitize at the time the policy is generated to satisfy advantage
agnosticism, but it misses this signal.
signal which we empirically evaluate to improve the attack
success rate from 40% to 20%. Note that each vote serves a
very specific function which wouldn’t be achieved if we were
to merge the votes:
• Vote 1: Trusted and advantage agnostic context only.
This forms the security backbone of Pincer. Without the
separation provided by this vote, we cannot establish any
guarantees.
• Vote 2: Content-dependent policies cannot be enforced
without this vote. It can additionally include the pre-
committed policy. However, the scope expansion can
still take over under all the untrusted content this vote
encounters.
• Vote 3: Additional security-relevant signal compared to
vote 1 while mitigating scope expansion because other
than the pre-committed policy, its input is trusted and
advantage agnostic, like vote 1, i.e. it is the smallest
expansion to the context of vote 1 to allow the policy as
input.
We finally state our main result which achieves Goal 1
from Section 3.
Theorem 1. Pincer meets Goal 1 at the resource layer.
Proof. Pincer’s decision is the conjunction v1 ∧v2 ∧v3, where
the first vote v1 = LLM(tctx,actx) = LLM((tctx,uctx′),rsrc′)
reads only trusted and advantage-agnostic context. If the con-
junction is grant, then v1 = grant, which is exactly the re-
quired implication.
9


Policy
rules
: Rule[]
defaultPermission : "deny"
// uncovered request is denied
Rule
pathGlob
: string
// e.g. h2577c0f557/ha4d2686801/h5e9432765 (for
/workspace/agent/projects/**)
access
: ("read" | "write")[]
operations : ("access" | "create_file" | "create_directory")[]
permission : "allow" | "deny" | "ask_user"
rationale
: string
// free-form untrusted field only shown alongside untrusted content
Listing 1: Pre-committed resource policy schema used as a suggestion by the twin.
6
User-Centric Dataset
We create a new synthetic dataset in this work that’s centered
around a few users and their continued use of an agent over
a time period. This is crucial for evaluating Pincer because
our twin requires a history from which it learns user prefer-
ences. Existing datasets and benchmarks don’t meet these
requirements as we discuss in Section 4. To the best of our
knowledge, this is the first dataset of this kind and of indepen-
dent interest to the community. We envision future datasets
for agents to incorporate the user-centric design because a
user’s experience with an agent evolves over time as the agent
self-improves from the daily interactions with the user. In
many situations, it is not enough to evaluate how the agent
would perform on day 1, and the long-term behavior of the
agent may be significantly more important as the user gradu-
ally starts giving the agent more authority and access. In this
work, we label the dataset to cater it to our evaluation of Pin-
cer primarily at the resource layer, i.e. the dataset contains
labels on which resources should be accessible and which
shouldn’t be accessible for each prompt given the user’s ongo-
ing experience with the agent. Our entire dataset is generated
synthetically with a combination of Claude Opus 4.8 and
Opus 5. Each user in our dataset is captured by a persona for
which we take inspiration from publicly available blogposts
of people’s day in the life8. The attack types and the general
structure of the examples in each persona are broadly inspired
by prior datasets [49,59].
Our persona pipeline for generating the dataset.
Our
dataset is generated through a sequence of four steps as fol-
lows:
1. Persona selection: The first step is to pick a persona. For
example: software developer, litigator, etc.
2. User bootstrapping: Given the persona, sample
(a) Natural language policies for a user with that per-
sona. These policies will typically be general to the
8We redact the citations to avoid identifying the specific individuals and
their blogposts. Everything beyond the published daily schedule is syntheti-
cally generated.
picked persona and not user-specific. For example:
never read secrets and credentials for a software
developer.
(b) A
synthetic
workspace
for
a
user
with
that
persona
and
given
the
policies
from
the
previous
step.
For example:
/,
/config/secrets.env, /projects/proj1/,
/projects/proj2/, /projects/shared/,
/finance/personal/bills.txt,
/finance/work/budget.txt, etc.
3. User simulation: Given the persona, the general policies,
and the workspace, we do a simulation of a user generat-
ing prompts and associated access patterns. This serves
as our history that the twin uses to learn the user pref-
erences since many user-specific policies implicitly fall
out of this simulation; for example: reading credentials
in testing is ok.
4. Labeled security and utility examples: The final step is
to take the information generated so far for producing
samples that test for security and utility. The samples
have no constraint to be based only in the history gen-
erated during user simulation. They can be natural next
tasks for the user including tasks not seen before. Each
sample contains:
(a) A user prompt that chronologically falls after the
history generated from the user simulation step.
(b) A
labeled
watched
request
{logicalPath,
accessType} denoting a path to the resource
and the kind of access (e.g. read or write) for
that resource. For security, the watched request
is a resource that the attacker wants the agent to
access, while for utility, the resource is the critical
resource for executing the user’s request (which
may or may not name the resource explicitly).
(c) Optionally, samples can have their own additional
artifacts which get mounted into the workspace for
that specific prompt.
10


As mentioned in our threat model Section 3, we assume
that the worker is already under the adversary’s control. Our
primary focus is therefore to evaluate the twin on both security
and utility. For security, we expect the twin to deny malicious
resource requests. For utility, we expect the twin to approve
benign resource requests so that the worker can complete
the user’s task. Situations where the worker itself avoids an
attack or the worker isn’t able to perform a benign task are
also captured in our evaluation from the point of view of the
resource requests the worker makes.
Attack types in our dataset.
We consider four major at-
tack types. The attacks play out between the worker and the
authority granting the resource request. This authority is the
twin for Pincer, while generally speaking, it is an LLM judge.
• Direct injection in the request (DI): the worker injects a
crafted payload to corrupt the judge’s decision directly
into the request’s reason field.
• Indirect injection of judge (II): the malicious payload
lives outside the request string. It may live in file con-
tents, filename, etc.
• Memory poisoning of judge (MP): the worker uses direct
or indirect injection to make the judge add a payload
into the judge’s state; the payload establishes a fake
authorization note for the judge for future requests. Once
the payload is planted, the judge is persistently poisoned
and future requests to the judge may be influenced by
the planted payload.
• Misleading filename attack (Section 5.3): we include two
sub-types of this attack: (1) Content laundering (CL):
the filename and file contents are misaligned. (2) Prove-
nance laundering (PL): the file is placed at a location
and named as if it belongs to a different location to make
it seem like a misplacement.
Each attack plants one or more payloads as files in the
workspace, and the worker can craft a secondary payload
via the reason field in its request for the judge. In DI, the at-
tacker’s payload targets the worker and the worker then crafts
a payload for the judge via the request. In II, the payload
targets the worker and is also read by the judge if the judge
sees contents of the file, but the worker isn’t allowed to inject
a payload in the request. MP samples are split between direct
and indirect. In CL and PL, there isn’t necessarily a payload
from the attacker providing instructions but rather the focus
is on violating user policies (e.g. CL: hiding credentials in a
regular filename or PL: doing cross-project accesses). There-
fore, different attack types test a whole range of pathways
with ample diversity.
Table 1: Summary of the two persona corpora.
Persona
Software Dev
Litigator
Workspace files
33
95
Projects
2
5
History prompts
40
60
User policies
33
33
Security samples
66
72
DI/II/MP/CL/PL
10/25/9/14/8
7/40/9/11/5
Utility samples
81
80
Details on our dataset.
Our dataset contains two personas
- a software developer and a civil-defense litigator. We pick
different professions so that the grounds for forbidding a
resource differ: for the developer they may be architectural
such as shared secrets and cross-project access rules; for the
litigator, they are professional and legal such as attorney-client
privilege and correspondence with opposing counsel. The
workspaces for the two personas are organized similarly but
differ entirely in content: project directories, memory files,
finance, credentials, and directories with MCP resources for
email, messages, and web integrations. The litigator’s projects
are legal matters, and that workspace adds firm-wide trees:
a calendar, a conflicts register, and a read-only library. On
the other hand, the projects for the software developer are
two inter-dependent software projects which have specific
conventions around which resources are shared and when
cross-project access is permitted. Table 1 shows further details
for each persona.
7
Implementation and Evaluation
7.1
Implementation
We implement Pincer and all baselines on top of a light-weight
open-source agent NanoClaw [40]. We consider the following
baselines:
• NanoClaw:
NanoClaw [40] is our only baseline
that doesn’t have any resource request mechanism.
The worker runs inside a Docker container with the
workspace files mounted into the container. There is
no LLM judge. The worker has access to all resources
in the workspace.
All the baselines other than NanoClaw implement some ver-
sion of a gate (regex matching or LLM judge) to authorize
resource requests. We provide a new resource request tool to
the worker (the worker starts off with no access other than
filenames and file paths) and provide instructions on how to
use it.
11


• Static-Judge: The LLM judge is given a set of general
safety-related instructions. It receives the contents of the
requested file, the filename, and a field specifying the
reason the worker is requesting that specific access. The
judge doesn’t get to know user-specific preferences; it is
not given the history.
• Dynamic-Judge: The LLM judge receives the entire his-
tory, so it can learn user preferences, and maintains its
own local state which may be directly influenced by
untrusted context, i.e. it doesn’t contain the isolation
(trusted and advantage agnostic context) we built for the
twin’s state in Pincer. The unprotected local state makes
the judge vulnerable to persistent attacks like memory
poisoning.
• Conseca+: We adapt Conseca [56] to work on the re-
source layer. The baseline commits to a policy file (List-
ing 1) when the user prompt arrives and before the
worker starts working on it. The system then enforces
the committed policy file on each resource request by
matching it against the policy. The policy file is gener-
ated using the user prompt, the workspace tree (paths,
filenames), and the entire history from our dataset.
• Conseca-Gemini+: This is a version of Conseca that’s
implemented in Gemini CLI [22]. We adapt it to the
resource layer similar to our Conseca baseline. The only
difference here is that rather than regex matching on each
request, an LLM judge is used. The judge still receives
the policy as input as well as the resource request speci-
fying the filename and the reason to access. The judge
doesn’t see file contents similar to the judge contract in
the Gemini CLI implementation [22].
For Pincer we consider 2 approaches as mentioned in Sec-
tion 5.6. Both approaches have the same vote 1 and vote 3.
The only difference lies in their content-based vote 2:
• Pincer: The twin doesn’t get the pre-committed policy
as input when casting vote 2.
• Pincer-P2: Pre-committed policy is considered when
casting vote 2.
Isolation boundary.
In our implementation, the worker and
its invoked tools run inside a container; the resources they act
on live on the host and are bind-mounted in. Pincer assigns the
worker an unprivileged UID and the OS kernel mediates every
access by checking mode bits and POSIX ACLs against that
UID. The container doesn’t use user-namespace remapping,
so the worker’s UID is also a host UID and the OS kernel can
enforce access control by dynamically adding or removing
a host-side ACL entry. Containers are torn down after each
task. Notice that no matter how the worker tries to access a
resource, it cannot bypass the kernel’s checks.
Our focus in this work is on filesystem resources. For
other types of resources like web APIs and cloud resources,
capability-based access control can be used.
Source code.
We will soon release our implementation and
dataset at https://github.com/ucbsky/Pincer.
7.2
Evaluation
We consider the following evaluation metrics:
• Attack Success Rate (ASR): ASR is a measure of se-
curity where lower is better. It is computed as a per-
centage of attack samples where the worker is able to
access the watched (forbidden) resource (Section 6).
To separate the twin’s decision from the case where
the worker itself dodges the attack and never makes a
request for the watched resource, we also report con-
ditional ASR (cASR) where we condition on samples
where the worker makes a request for the watched re-
source.
• Benign Grant Rate (BGR): BGR is a measure of utility
where higher is better. It is computed as a percentage of
utility samples (no attack) where the worker is able to
access the watched (benign) resource. We define condi-
tional BGR (cBGR) in an analogous manner to cASR.
Models.
We use Anthropic’s Claude Haiku 4.5 for our
worker as well as the LLM judges and twin for the software
developer persona. To validate our performance on another
model, we use Meta’s Muse Spark 1.2 Contributor9 for the
litigator persona. We limit our evaluation to these two mod-
els, one per persona, due to our resource constraints and the
resource-intensive nature of our evaluation.
Security-utility frontier.
Figure 4 presents security and
utility for each approach on both personas in our dataset. Pin-
cer achieves a significant jump in security while achieving
comparable utility to the baselines. Table 2 shows the condi-
tional rates strongly agreeing with this overall trend.
Comparison across attack types.
Figure 5 breaks ASR
down by attack type for both personas. Across all attack
types, Pincer outperforms the majority of the baselines. More-
over, if we focus on memory poisoning (MP), we observe
a significant improvement especially compared to Dynamic-
Judge where the judge maintains its own state and refers to it
on each resource request (similar to the twin’s state in Pincer);
however, that state isn’t isolated in Dynamic-Judge. The most
striking result is for the provenance-laundering (PL) attack, a
9Muse Spark 1.2 is a top-tier model at the time of writing [6].
12


0
20
40
60
80
100
Attacks blocked (100 − ASR) %
0
20
40
60
80
100
Benign grant rate (BGR) %
66 security / 81 utility samples, each run twice
(a) Software Dev
better
0
20
40
60
80
100
Attacks blocked (100 − ASR) %
72 security / 80 utility samples, each run twice
(b) Litigator
better
NanoClaw
Static-Judge
Dynamic-Judge
Conseca+
Conseca-Gemini+
Pincer
Pincer-P2
Figure 4: Security–utility frontier on ASR and BGR. Up and to the right is better.
0
25
50
75
100
ASR %
(a) Software Dev
DI
II
MP
CL
PL
0
25
50
75
100
ASR %
(b) Litigator
NanoClaw
Static-Judge
Dynamic-Judge
Conseca+
Conseca-Gemini+
Pincer
Pincer-P2
ASR
cASR
Figure 5: ASR by attack type. Solid bars are ASR; the wider faint bars behind them are cASR. NanoClaw doesn’t have resource
access gate, so its cASR is omitted.
type of misleading filename attack, where Pincer offers sig-
nificantly more protection than all baselines for both personas
across the two LLM model families (Haiku and Muse Spark).
Costs.
We found the token cost of all baselines to be sig-
nificantly larger than the undefended NanoClaw at around
2-5×, while Pincer incurs an additional 2-3× on top. While
these costs may appear quite large, there are several ways to
bring them down significantly to the point that the overhead
of Pincer will be in a similar range to the baselines and even
further push the cost of all approaches closer to NanoClaw.
First, about half of the cost in Pincer is from reasoning tokens
of the twin because we haven’t explored routine compaction
of its state into standing policies in our implementation yet; it
13


Table 2: Conditional rates (%) on the samples where the
worker makes the watched request.
Software Dev
Litigator
Arm
cASR
cBGR
cASR
cBGR
NanoClaw
93.2
72.8
41.0
95.6
Static-Judge
48.9
98.1
30.9
93.7
Dynamic-Judge
61.9
98.1
32.6
96.2
Conseca+
63.5
91.3
16.0
98.1
Conseca-Gemini+
59.8
94.8
18.2
96.9
Pincer
28.4
89.7
8.1
90.9
Pincer-P2
32.2
92.9
9.7
89.5
reasons through its entire state on each request which causes
a lot of redundancy. Second, the number of LLM API calls
in Pincer is bloated signficantly because our resource request
tool doesn’t implement batched requests. Therefore, if the
worker wants five resources, it has to stop five times in a se-
quence requesting one resource at a time, and the twin will
reason about each from scratch. Lastly, for established tasks,
the twin can pre-approve resources like pre-committed poli-
cies (Listing 1) which can be enforced via path matching
similar to Conseca+.
References
[1] James P Anderson et al. Computer security technology
planning study. Technical report, ESD-TR-73-51, 1972.
URL: https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/his
tory/ande72a.pdf.
[2] Marco
Annoni,
Davide
Battisti,
and
Beat-
rice
Marchegiani.
Personalised
llms
and
the
risks
of the
digital twin
metaphor.
AI
&
SOCIETY, pages
1–13, 2026.
URL:
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00146-026-02875-4.
[3] Anthropic. Claude Code, 2026. Accessed 2026-08-20.
URL: https://github.com/anthropics/claude-c
ode.
[4] Anthropic. Configure auto mode. Claude Code docu-
mentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-08-19. URL: https:
//code.claude.com/docs/en/auto-mode-config.
[5] Anthropic. Investigating Three Real-World Incidents
in Our Cybersecurity Evaluations.
Anthropic, 2026.
Published 2026-07-30; accessed 2026-08-19. URL: ht
tps://www.anthropic.com/news/investigating
-incidents-cybersecurity-evals.
[6] Artificial Analysis. Muse Spark 1.2: Improved Agentic
Performance at Higher Cost per Task. Artificial Analy-
sis, 2026. Accessed 2026-08-25. URL: https://arti
ficialanalysis.ai/articles/muse-spark-1-2.
[7] Luca Beurer-Kellner, Beat Buesser, Ana-Maria Cre¸tu,
Edoardo Debenedetti, Daniel Dobos, Daniel Fabian,
Marc Fischer, David Froelicher, Kathrin Grosse, Daniel
Naeff, et al.
Design patterns for securing llm
agents against prompt injections.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2506.08837, 2025. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2506.08837.
[8] Sizhe Chen, Julien Piet, Chawin Sitawarin, and David
Wagner. {StruQ}: Defending against prompt injection
with structured queries. In 34th USENIX Security Sym-
posium (USENIX Security 25), pages 2383–2400, 2025.
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06363.
[9] Sizhe Chen, Arman Zharmagambetov, Saeed Mahlou-
jifar, Kamalika Chaudhuri, David Wagner, and Chuan
Guo.
Secalign: Defending against prompt injection
with preference optimization. In Proceedings of the
2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Com-
munications Security, pages 2833–2847, 2025. URL:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3719027.3744836.
[10] Zhaorun Chen, Zhen Xiang, Chaowei Xiao, Dawn Song,
and Bo Li. Agentpoison: Red-teaming llm agents via
poisoning memory or knowledge bases. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 37,
pages 130185–130213, 2024. URL: https://arxiv.
org/abs/2407.12784.
[11] Mihai Christodorescu, Earlence Fernandes, Ashish
Hooda, Somesh Jha, Johann Rehberger, Kamalika
Chaudhuri, Xiaohan Fu, Khawaja Shams, Guy Amir,
Jihye Choi, et al. Systems security foundations for agen-
tic computing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.01295, 2025.
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.01295.
[12] Lluís C Coll, Martin W Lauer-Schmaltz, Philip Cash,
John P Hansen, and Anja Maier. Towards the" digital
me": a vision of authentic conversational agents pow-
ered by personal human digital twins. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2506.23826, 2025. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2506.23826.
[13] Manuel Costa, Boris Köpf, Aashish Kolluri, Andrew
Paverd, Mark Russinovich, Ahmed Salem, Shruti Tople,
Lukas Wutschitz, and Santiago Zanella-Béguelin. Se-
curing ai agents with information-flow control. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.23643, 2025. URL: https://ar
xiv.org/abs/2505.23643.
[14] Edoardo Debenedetti, Ilia Shumailov, Tianqi Fan, Jamie
Hayes, Nicholas Carlini, Daniel Fabian, Christoph Kern,
14


Chongyang Shi, Andreas Terzis, and Florian Tramèr.
Defeating prompt injections by design. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.18813, 2025. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2503.18813.
[15] Edoardo Debenedetti, Jie Zhang, Mislav Balunovic,
Luca Beurer-Kellner, Marc Fischer, and Florian Tramèr.
Agentdojo: A dynamic environment to evaluate prompt
injection attacks and defenses for llm agents. In Ad-
vances in neural information processing systems, vol-
ume 37, pages 82895–82920, 2024.
URL: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2406.13352.
[16] Shen Dong, Shaochen Xu, Pengfei He, Yige Li, Jiliang
Tang, Tianming Liu, Hui Liu, and Zhen Xiang. Mem-
ory injection attacks on llm agents via query-only in-
teraction.
Advances in Neural Information Process-
ing Systems, 38:46697–46731, 2026.
URL: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2503.03704.
[17] Bangde Du, Minghao Guo, Songming He, Ziyi Ye,
Xi Zhu, Weihang Su, Shuqi Zhu, Yujia Zhou, Yongfeng
Zhang, Qingyao Ai, et al.
Twinvoice: A multi-
dimensional benchmark towards digital twins via llm
persona simulation. In Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: ACL 2026, pages 19604–
19628, 2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2510
.25536.
[18] Adrienne Porter Felt, Erika Chin, Steve Hanna, Dawn
Song, and David Wagner. Android permissions demys-
tified. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM conference on
Computer and communications security, pages 627–638,
2011. URL: https://doi.org/10.1145/2046707.
2046779.
[19] Adrienne Porter Felt, Elizabeth Ha, Serge Egelman,
Ariel Haney, Erika Chin, and David Wagner. Android
permissions: User attention, comprehension, and behav-
ior.
In Proceedings of the eighth symposium on us-
able privacy and security, pages 1–14, 2012.
URL:
https://doi.org/10.1145/2335356.2335360.
[20] Yilin Geng, Haonan Li, Honglin Mu, Xudong Han,
Timothy Baldwin, Omri Abend, Eduard Hovy, and Lea
Frermann.
Control illusion: The failure of instruc-
tion hierarchies in large language models.
In Pro-
ceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence, volume 40, pages 30816–30824, 2026. URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15851.
[21] Guangyu Gong and Zizhuang Deng. Planguard: De-
fending agents against indirect prompt injection via
planning-based consistency verification. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2604.10134, 2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2604.10134.
[22] Google.
Gemini CLI.
GitHub repository, commit
571851b1077a51cef757146ce13f9da887326bec,
2026.
Accessed 2026-08-19.
URL: h t t p s :
//github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli.
[23] Kai Greshake, Sahar Abdelnabi, Shailesh Mishra,
Christoph Endres, Thorsten Holz, and Mario Fritz. Not
what you’ve signed up for: Compromising real-world
llm-integrated applications with indirect prompt injec-
tion. In Proceedings of the 16th ACM workshop on artifi-
cial intelligence and security, pages 79–90, 2023. URL:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3605764.3623985.
[24] Idan Habler and Amy Chang. Identifying and Remedi-
ating a Persistent Memory Compromise in Claude Code.
Cisco Blogs, 2026. Published 2026-04-01; accessed
2026-08-19. URL: https://blogs.cisco.com/ai/i
dentifying-and-remediating-a-persistent-m
emory-compromise-in-claude-code.
[25] Zexue He, Yu Wang, Churan Zhi, Yuanzhe Hu, Tzu-
Ping Chen, Lang Yin, Ze Chen, Tong Arthur Wu, Siru
Ouyang, Zihan Wang, et al. Memoryarena: Benchmark-
ing agent memory in interdependent multi-session agen-
tic tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.16313, 2026. URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.16313.
[26] Keegan Hines, Gary Lopez, Matthew Hall, Federico
Zarfati, Yonatan Zunger, and Emre Kiciman. Defending
against indirect prompt injection attacks with spotlight-
ing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.14720, 2024. URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14720.
[27] Jason Howell. The Agent That Deleted A Company in
9 Seconds. Experience Tech, 2026. Published 2026-04-
29; accessed 2026-08-19. URL: https://jasonhowel
l.substack.com/p/the-agent-that-deleted-a
-company.
[28] Qi Hu, Yifeng Tang, Qinghua Wang, Lanyang Zhao,
Pengji Zhang, Yuhao Qing, Xin Yao, Dong Huang, Lin
Zhang, and Zhuoran Ji. Saber: Benchmarking oper-
ational safety of llm coding agents in stateful project
workspaces. arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.01317, 2026.
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.01317.
[29] John Hughes. How we built Claude Code auto mode: a
safer way to skip permissions. Anthropic engineering
blog, 2026. Accessed 2026-08-19. URL: https://ww
w.anthropic.com/engineering/claude-code-a
uto-mode.
[30] Zimo Ji, Zongjie Li, Wenyuan Jiang, Yudong Gao, and
Shuai Wang. Measuring the permission gate: A stress-
test evaluation of claude code’s auto mode.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2604.04978, 2026.
URL: https://
arxiv.org/abs/2604.04978.
15


[31] Sanjay Kariyappa and G Edward Suh. Stronger enforce-
ment of instruction hierarchy via augmented intermedi-
ate representations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.18907,
2025. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.18907.
[32] Evan Li, Tushin Mallick, Evan Rose, William Robert-
son, Alina Oprea, and Cristina Nita-Rotaru. ACE: A
Security Architecture for LLM-Integrated App Systems.
In Network and Distributed System Security Symposium
(NDSS), 2026. doi:10.14722/ndss.2026.230352.
[33] Hao Li, Xiaogeng Liu, CHIU Chun, Dianqi Li, Ning
Zhang, and Chaowei Xiao. Drift: Dynamic rule-based
defense with injection isolation for securing llm agents.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
volume 38, pages 83262–83290, 2026. URL: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2506.12104.
[34] Hao Li, Ruoyao Wen, Shanghao Shi, Ning Zhang, Yev-
geniy Vorobeychik, and Chaowei Xiao. Agentdyn: Are
your agent security defenses deployable in real-world dy-
namic environments? arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.03117,
2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.03117.
[35] Rui Li, Heming Xia, Xinfeng Yuan, Qingxiu Dong, Lei
Sha, Wenjie Li, and Zhifang Sui.
How far are llms
from being our digital twins? a benchmark for persona-
based behavior chain simulation. In Findings of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025,
pages 15738–15763, 2025. URL: https://doi.org/
10.18653/v1/2025.findings-acl.813.
[36] Ying Li, Yanju Chen, Peiran Wang, Issac Khabra,
Faysal Hossain Shezan, Yu Feng, and Yuan Tian. Op-
tions, not clicks: Lattice refinement for consent-driven
mcp authorization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.11360,
2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.11360.
[37] Yupei Liu, Yuqi Jia, Runpeng Geng, Jinyuan Jia, and
Neil Zhenqiang Gong. Formalizing and benchmarking
prompt injection attacks and defenses. In 33rd USENIX
Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24), pages 1831–
1847, 2024. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.1
2815.
[38] Adyasha Maharana, Dong-Ho Lee, Sergey Tulyakov,
Mohit Bansal, Francesco Barbieri, and Yuwei Fang.
Evaluating very long-term conversational memory of
llm agents. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting
of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Vol-
ume 1: Long Papers), pages 13851–13870, 2024. URL:
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.
747.
[39] Narek Maloyan and Dmitry Namiot.
Prompt injec-
tion attacks on agentic coding assistants: A systematic
analysis of vulnerabilities in skills, tools, and protocol
ecosystems. International Journal of Open Informa-
tion Technologies, 14(2):1–10, 2026.
URL: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2601.17548.
[40] NanoCo AI. NanoClaw. GitHub repository, 2026. Ac-
cessed 2026-08-20. URL: https://github.com/nan
ocoai/nanoclaw.
[41] OpenAI. OpenAI and Hugging Face Partner to Address
Security Incident During Model Evaluation. OpenAI,
2026. Accessed 2026-08-19. URL: https://openai
.com/index/hugging-face-model-evaluation-s
ecurity-incident/.
[42] OpenAI. OpenAI Codex, 2026. Accessed 2026-08-20.
URL: https://github.com/openai/codex.
[43] OpenClaw. OpenClaw, 2026. Accessed 2026-08-20.
URL: https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw.
[44] Charles Packer, Sarah Wooders, Kevin Lin, Vivian Fang,
Shishir G Patil, Ion Stoica, and Joseph E Gonzalez.
Memgpt: Towards llms as operating systems. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.08560, 2023. URL: https://ar
xiv.org/abs/2310.08560.
[45] Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Mered-
ith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bernstein.
Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human be-
havior. In Proceedings of the 36th annual acm sympo-
sium on user interface software and technology, pages
1–22, 2023. URL: https://doi.org/10.1145/3586
183.3606763.
[46] Atharv
Singh
Patlan, Ashwin
Hebbar, Pramod
Viswanath, and Prateek Mittal. Context manipulation
attacks: Web agents are susceptible to corrupted
memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.17318, 2025. URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.17318.
[47] Fábio Perez and Ian Ribeiro. Ignore previous prompt:
Attack techniques for language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.09527, 2022. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2211.09527.
[48] Julien Piet, Annabella Chow, Yiwei Hou, Muxi Lyu,
Sylvie Venuto, Jinhao Zhu, Raluca Ada Popa, and David
Wagner. Web agents should adopt the plan-then-execute
paradigm.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.14290, 2026.
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.14290.
[49] Sidharth Pulipaka, Stanislau Hlebik, Leonidas Raghav,
Sahar Abdelnabi, Vyas Raina, Ivaxi Sheth, and Mario
Fritz. Hidden in memory: Sleeper memory poisoning
in llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.15338, 2026.
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.15338.
16


[50] Suliu Qin, Haomin Zhuang, Yujun Zhou, Yufei Han,
and Xiangliang Zhang. Airguard: Guarding agent ac-
tions with runtime authority control. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2605.28914, 2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2605.28914.
[51] Jerome H. Saltzer and Michael D. Schroeder.
The
Protection of Information in Computer Systems. Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE, 63(9):1278–1308, 1975. doi:
10.1109/PROC.1975.9939.
[52] Igor Santos-Grueiro. Lingering authority: Revocable
resource-and-effect capabilities for coding agents. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2606.22504, 2026. URL: https://ar
xiv.org/abs/2606.22504.
[53] Tianneng Shi, Jingxuan He, Zhun Wang, Hongwei Li,
Linyu Wu, Wenbo Guo, and Dawn Song. Progent: Se-
curing ai agents with privilege control. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.11703, 2025. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2504.11703.
[54] Saksham Sahai Srivastava and Haoyu He. Memorygraft:
Persistent compromise of llm agents via poisoned expe-
rience retrieval. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.16962, 2025.
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.16962.
[55] The Guardian. Claude-powered AI agent’s confession
after deleting a firm’s entire database: ‘I violated every
principle I was given’. The Guardian, 2026. Published
2026-04-29; accessed 2026-08-19. URL: https://ww
w.theguardian.com/technology/2026/apr/29/c
laude-ai-deletes-firm-database.
[56] Lillian Tsai and Eugene Bagdasarian. Contextual agent
security: A policy for every purpose. In Proceedings of
the 2025 Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems,
pages 8–17, 2025. URL: https://doi.org/10.114
5/3713082.3730378.
[57] Eric Wallace, Kai Xiao, Reimar Leike, Lilian Weng,
Johannes Heidecke, and Alex Beutel. The instruction
hierarchy: Training llms to prioritize privileged instruc-
tions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.13208, 2024. URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.13208.
[58] Peiran Wang, Xinfeng Li, Chong Xiang, Jinghuai Zhang,
Ying Li, Lixia Zhang, Xiaofeng Wang, and Yuan Tian.
The landscape of prompt injection threats in llm
agents: From taxonomy to analysis.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2602.10453, 2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2602.10453.
[59] Yuhang Wang, Feiming Xu, Zheng Lin, Guangyu He,
Yuzhe Huang, Haichang Gao, Zhenxing Niu, Shiguo
Lian, and Zhaoxiang Liu.
From assistant to double
agent: Formalizing and benchmarking attacks on open-
claw for personalized local ai agent. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2602.08412, 2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2602.08412.
[60] Qianshan Wei, Tengchao Yang, Yaochen Wang, Xin-
feng Li, Lijun Li, Zhenfei Yin, Yi Zhan, Thorsten Holz,
Zhiqiang Lin, and XiaoFeng Wang. A-memguard: A
proactive defense framework for llm-based agent mem-
ory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.02373, 2025. URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.02373.
[61] Rebecca Westhäußer, Wolfgang Minker, and Sebatian
Zepf. Enabling personalized long-term interactions in
llm-based agents through persistent memory and user
profiles. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.07925, 2025. URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.07925.
[62] Yuhao Wu, Franziska Roesner, Tadayoshi Kohno, Ning
Zhang, and Umar Iqbal.
IsolateGPT: An Execution
Isolation Architecture for LLM-Based Agentic Systems.
In Network and Distributed System Security Symposium
(NDSS), 2025. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403
.04960.
[63] Yuhao Wu, Ke Yang, Franziska Roesner, Tadayoshi
Kohno, Ning Zhang, and Umar Iqbal. Towards automat-
ing data access permissions in ai agents. In 2026 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 2609–
2627. IEEE, 2026. URL: https://doi.org/10.110
9/SP63933.2026.00018.
[64] Zhenlin Xu, Xiaogang Zhu, Yu Yao, Minhui Xue, and
Yiliao Song.
From storage to steering: Memory
control flow attacks on llm agents.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2603.15125, 2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2603.15125.
[65] Zheng Yan, Jingxiang Weng, Charles Chen, Dengyun
Peng, Ethan Qin, Jiannan Guan, Jinhao Liu, Qiming Yu,
Yixin Yuan, Fanqing Meng, et al. Do coding agents
understand least-privilege authorization? arXiv preprint
arXiv:2605.14859, 2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2605.14859.
[66] Hanqing Yang, Marie Siew, and Carlee Joe-Wong. An
llm-based digital twin for optimizing human-in-the loop
systems. In 2024 IEEE International Workshop on Foun-
dation Models for Cyber-Physical Systems & Internet
of Things (FMSys), pages 26–31. IEEE, 2024. URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.16809.
[67] Xianglin Yang, Yufei He, Shuo Ji, Bryan Hooi, and
Jin Song Dong.
Zombie agents: Persistent control
of self-evolving llm agents via self-reinforcing injec-
tions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.15654, 2026. URL:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.15654.
17


[68] Charles Ye, Jasmine Cui, and Dylan Hadfield-Menell.
Prompt injection as role confusion.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2603.12277, 2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2603.12277.
[69] Qiusi Zhan, Zhixiang Liang, Zifan Ying, and Daniel
Kang. Injecagent: Benchmarking indirect prompt in-
jections in tool-integrated large language model agents.
In Findings of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics: ACL 2024, pages 10471–10506, 2024. URL:
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.finding
s-acl.624.
[70] Hanrong Zhang, Jingyuan Huang, Kai Mei, Yifei Yao,
Zhenting Wang, Chenlu Zhan, Hongwei Wang, and
Yongfeng Zhang. Agent security bench (asb): Formaliz-
ing and benchmarking attacks and defenses in llm-based
agents. In International Conference on Learning Rep-
resentations, volume 2025, pages 35331–35366, 2025.
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.02644.
[71] Zeyu Zhang, Quanyu Dai, Xiaohe Bo, Chen Ma, Rui
Li, Xu Chen, Jieming Zhu, Zhenhua Dong, and Ji-Rong
Wen. A survey on the memory mechanism of large
language model-based agents. ACM Transactions on
Information Systems, 43(6):1–47, 2025. URL: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2404.13501.
[72] Yujie Zhao, Boqin Yuan, Junbo Huang, Haocheng Yuan,
Zhongming Yu, Haozhou Xu, Lanxiang Hu, Abhilash
Shankarampeta, Zimeng Huang, Wentao Ni, et al. Ama-
bench: Evaluating long-horizon memory for agentic
applications. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.22769, 2026.
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.22769.
[73] Yusheng Zheng, Tianyuan Wu, Quanzhi Fu, Tong Yu,
Wenan Mao, Tao Ma, Dan Williams, Wei Wang, and
Andi Quinn.
Actplane: Programmable os-level pol-
icy enforcement for agent harnesses. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2606.25189, 2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2606.25189.
[74] Jinhao Zhu, Kevin Tseng, Gil Vernik, Xiao Huang,
Shishir G Patil, Vivian Fang, and Raluca Ada Popa.
Miniscope: A least privilege framework for authorizing
tool calling agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.11147,
2025. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.11147.
[75] Wei Zou, Mingwen Dong, Miguel Romero Calvo,
Shuaichen Chang, Jiang Guo, Dongkyu Lee, Xing Niu,
Xiaofei Ma, Yanjun Qi, and Jiarong Jiang.
Poison
once, exploit forever: Environment-injected memory
poisoning attacks on web agents.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2604.02623, 2026. URL: https://arxiv.org/
abs/2604.02623.
18
