Title: Beyond Predictable Paths: Redefining AI Security Incident Reporting for Agents

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.24515v1

Published Time: Tue, 22 Sep 2026 02:37:26 GMT

Number of Pages: 12

Markdown Content:
# Beyond Predictable Paths: AI Security Incident Reporting for Compromised Agents 

# Anastasia Pustozerova 1* , Eugene Bagdasarian 2, Luca Beurer-Kellner 3, Battista Biggio 4, Nico Ebert 5, David Filip 6, Marc Fischer 3, Heather Frase 8,9 , David Hofer 3, Juliane Hoffmann 7, Daphne Ippolito 10 , Somesh Jha 11 , Sean McGregor 9, Esfandiar Mohammadi 12 , Luca Nannini 13 , Cristina Nita-Rotaru 14 , Alina Oprea 14 , Kevin Paeth 15 , Andrew Paverd 16 , Jonathan Petit 17 , Andreas Rauber 18 , Christian Riess 7, John Sotiropoulos 19 , Andreas Wespi 20 , Kathrin Grosse 21* 

> 1

SBA Research, Austria 2University of Massachusetts Amherst, US 3Snyk, Switzerland 4Universita degli studi di Cagliari, Italy 5ZHAW, Switzerland 6ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 42, Huawei, Ireland 7FAU Erlangen-N¨ urnberg, Germany 8Veraitech and Virginia Tech, US 9Responsible AI collaborative, US 10 Carnegie Mellon University, US 11 University of Wisconsin, US 

> 12

University of L¨ ubeck, Germany 13 Trustora Digital, Spain 14 Northeastern University, US 15 UL Research Institutes, US 

> 16

Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC), Great Britain 17 Qualcomm, US 18 TU Vienna, Austria 19 Deep Cyber/OWASP GenAI Security Project, United Kingdom 20 IBM Research Europe–Zurich, Switzerland 21 Independent, Germany kathrgrosse@gmail.com 

Abstract 

AI agents are being deployed rapidly, accompanied by a growing number of AI-specific attacks and corresponding in-cidents. As incident reporting becomes increasingly impor-tant for legal compliance, governance, accountability, and se-curity; current frameworks must be adapted to the unique characteristics of AI agents. In this paper, two editorial au-thors compare AI systems and AI agents and, drawing on in-put from 23 experts in academia and industry, identify the in-formation required for reporting incidents where the security of AI agents is harmed. Potential reporting elements include, for example, agent memory and memory accesses, actual and potential levels of autonomy, and tool usage. Based on these findings, we identify several open research questions, includ-ing how to efficiently record incidents and how to determine whether vulnerabilities and incidents generalize. Expert feed-back also highlighted potential reporting weaknesses, such as risks of data leakage and attacks targeting the reporting in-frastructure itself, creating additional research needs. Lastly, we summarize privacy requirements and outline research di-rections for the secure and trustworthy deployment of AI agents. 

# Introduction 

AI agents are increasingly targeted by attackers through prompt injection, memory poisoning, tool compromise, and other agent-specific attack vectors. This is reflected in an increasing number of AI incidents, which also entail non-security related incidents involving agents. As visible in Fig-

> *

These authors contributed equally. Copyright © 2026, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved. This paper synthesizes diverse expert perspectives. Contribu-tors provided input within their specific domains of expertise; au-thorship does not imply endorsement of every sub-section. 

ure 1, a large fraction of all AI incidents involve large lan-guage models (LLMs) and agentic AI (yellow). A significant fraction of these are security-related, and intentionally ex-ploit known vulnerabilities (CVE, dark blue) or tamper with the AI models or agents specifically (light blue). Security vulnerabilities for AI agents span the agent’s data (EchoLeak, CVE-2025-32711; ShareLeak in Copilot Studio, CVE- 2026-21520), context (Reprompt, CVE-2026-24307), and a accessed tools (GitHub Copilot, CVE-2025-53773). Scientific work further confirms systematically mis-diagnosed risks at, for example, the sequence of steps the agent takes (Li et al. 2026). These findings raise the question of how such incidents and vulnerabilities can guide incident response and inform security best practices. For example, research in non-agentic AI security has played a critical role in improving AI robust-ness, uncovering hidden model vulnerabilities, and driving more reliable evaluation methodologies. Concepts such as threat modeling and adaptive attacks are now foundational to AI red teaming and security engineering. To systemati-cally learn from real-world incidents, an appropriate struc-tured form of incident reporting needs to be established. Such reporting is indeed already demanded by legislation like the AI Act Article 73 reporting obligations (European Parliament, Council 2024). AI agents, as discussed in detail below, constitute a specific subset of AI systems character-ized by multi-step incidents involving multiple components and dynamic interactions. They are not adequately captured by existing approaches of incident reporting. Fully describing an AI agent routinely includes informa-tion like functions and permissions, and may further con-tain (state of) memory, context length, connections to other agents, tools, skills, and capabilities, including their ver-sions, accessible data and APIs, code, supply-chain depen-dencies, and as well as any messages exchanged, interme-diate states of sub-agents, logs, and tool traces. Because arXiv:2609.24515v1 [cs.CR] 21 Sep 2026 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 

> Year
> 01000 2000 3000 4000
> Count per Year  Total (OECD AIM) Agentic incidents CVE / Vulnerabilities AI security

Figure 1: AI Incidents and vulnerabilities . We plot the total number of incidents in the OECD AI incident mon-itor (AIM) (gray) (OECD 2026), which tracks and docu-ments real world AI incidents and hazards. Agentic incidents (yellow, dash-doted) are shown separately following Guil-herme Jr (2026). We further distinguish incidents with an officially assigned vulnerability (dark blue, dotted) or an AI security tag (light blue, dashed), also based on Guilherme Jr (2026). agentic AI systems dynamically compose such tools, sub-agents, APIs, and external data sources at runtime, the con-ditions giving rise to an incident may never have existed dur-ing development or testing. Incident reporting therefore be-comes a foundational mechanism for uncovering new risks and preventing future incidents (Wei and Heim 2026; Gail-mard et al. 2025). While there are proposals for non-agentic AI security in-cident reports (Bieringer et al. 2024; Strom et al. 2020; Fazelnia, Moshtari, and Mirakhorli 2026), or reporting for agentic AI for non-security incidents (Ezell, Roberts-Gaal, and Chan 2025); there is no security reporting standard for AI agents. Our contributions are thus six-fold: 1. We show, based on definitions of the OECD and the EU, that the difference between AI systems and AI agents is small but substantial for security incident reporting. 2. We consolidate the perspectives of 23 experts on con-cerns and challenges in agentic AI security incident re-porting. 3. We derive what information needs to be collected for AI agent security incidents (see Table 1). 4. We identify open research questions related to security incident reporting for AI agents. 5. We highlight novel security and privacy challenges that apply to agentic AI security incident reporting. 6. We summarize implications for research, legislation, and standards. This paper is organized as follows. We first review nec-essary background, defining AI systems and agents, agen-tic security, incident, and summarizing related work in re-search, standards, and legislation. We then discuss how to describe an agentic security incident. After presenting spe-cific security and privacy properties needed for security in-cident reporting, we outline implications for both research and legislation and standards and conclude. 

# Background 

Before discussing incident reporting for AI agents, we define what we mean by an AI agent, what security risks exist for such systems, how to define the corresponding incident, and what related scientific and standards work exist. 

## Defining AI systems and AI agents 

The OECD definition of an AI system (OECD 2024) pro-vides the conceptual foundation for the EU AI Act and work on AI incident reporting (Bieringer et al. 2024). The OECD defines “ an AI system [as] a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it re-ceives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations, or decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI systems vary in their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment. ”In this work, the term AI agent refers to the modern agents based on large language models (LLM) (Sapkota, Roumeli-otis, and Karkee 2025), which are a subset of AI systems. 

AI agents are defined by the European Union as “ agen-tic artificial intelligence (agentic AI) [is] a concept in ar-tificial intelligence (AI) that describes systems acting au-tonomously with limited human interactions (in particular, without step-by-step instructions) to fulfill goals rather than isolated tasks .” 1

In other words, AI agents (or agentic AI) are a specific subset of AI systems. They shift from task-driven execution to goal-directed behavior. According to Merriam Webster, a task is “ a piece of work that has been given to someone ”, whereas a goal is “ the end toward which effort is directed, [an] aim ”. A goal thus requires many steps that the agents carries out. In contrast, non-agentic AI systems focus on tasks, often solvable in a single or few interactions. This high-level difference between AI systems and AI agents mandates changes in how to describe an event in-volving such an agent (i.e., an incident, as defined later). Unlike traditional non-agentic AI systems, where an event possibly relies on a single input-output pair, an agentic inci-dent unfolds across a sequence of reasoning steps, tool invo-cations, memory accesses, and environmental interactions. Hence, agent-based interactions have a strong trajectory -level character (Bisconti et al. 2026). A second distinguish-ing property is the expanded capabilities of an AI agent required to achieve goals rather than isolated tasks. Agents can cause direct effects on their environment, for example, on the underlying operating system and connected services. Thus, their potential impact is significantly broader. In ad-dition, despite AI agents being a subset of AI systems, they exhibit structural differences, including the ability to com-prise of multiple AI models or even other AI systems (Li et al. 2023). 

> 1https://www.edps.europa.eu/data-protection/technology-monitoring/techsonar/agentic-ai en

While none of these differences is strictly unique to agen-tic AI, each is considerably more pronounced in agents than in non-agentic AI systems. 

## Attacks on AI agents 

Following ISO/IEC 27000:2018 (ISO 2018), we define an attack as an attempt to destroy, expose, alter, disable, steal an asset, or to gain unauthorized access to or make unau-thorized use it. Such attacks can target any computer or digital system. An underlying flaw or weakness that can be exploited in an attack is often formally cataloged and assigned a unique Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) identifier to facilitate standardized tracking and re-mediation. AI systems suffer from such flaws as any other software system. In addition, AI systems are vulnerable to a plethora of AI specific attacks, including training or test data tampering (Biggio and Roli 2018), and the introduc-tion of backdoors or bias (Cin` a et al. 2023), sensitive data inference (Oliynyk, Mayer, and Rauber 2023), or sloth at-tacks (Brachemi Meftah et al. 2026). Moreover, there are specific attacks on AI agents. For ex-ample, external data used by an agent to solve a partial task can be poisoned with malicious instructions, allowing an at-tacker to influence the agent without requiring direct con-trol over it. Unlike classical data poisoning, however, this occurs at inference time rather than during training. More broadly, an action may directly originate either from an ini-tial prompt or from a reasoning process and can be signif-icantly influenced by external data. Hence, seemingly in-nocuous prompts and data may unfold into an attack dur-ing reasoning, i.e., the reasoning process is used to cause harm. Agents’ inherent autonomy enables attacks such as indirect prompt injection, tool misuse, memory poisoning, and multi-agent trust exploitation. Such attacks form com-plex exploit chains involving privilege escalation and data exfiltration (Greshake et al. 2023; Reddy and Gujral 2025; MITRE Corporation 2024). This expanded attack surface fundamentally alters the threat model applicable to classical AI systems. Security on AI and AI agents has so far produced exten-sive academic literature, yet relatively few documented op-erational incidents. Studies have shown that attackers over-whelmingly prefer cheaper and more reliable methods — such as phishing, credential theft, and supply-chain compro-mise — over sophisticated attacks optimized against the tar-get model, which have not yet been weaponized on a large scale (Apruzzese et al. 2023; Grosse et al. 2024). Despite their currently low prevalence, such attacks warrant proac-tive mitigation due to their potentially high impact, which may be further amplified by the autonomy and capabilities of agentic systems. 

## Defining AI Incidents 

The OECD (2024) defines an AI incident as an event in-volving an AI system where harm incurred. Examples of harm include injury, disruptions of critical infrastructure, vi-olations of human rights, and harm to property. Other def-initions of incidents vary depending on how close an event comes to causing harm. Even ”near misses” – events that could have caused harm but did not – can be a valuable source of learning (Wei and Heim 2026). Such harm-event based reporting is usually implicated by model failures (e.g., biased outputs, hallucinations, privacy leakage). In contrast, reporting within non-AI security assumes a clear attacker-victim topology: a malicious actor exploits a vulnerability in a system, and the system’s operator is the harmed party. Patching vulnerable systems typically reduces their future vulnerability. Hence, Reporting (AI) incidents for safety and security differs (Bieringer et al. 2026), as safety aims to pro-tect external actors from the AI system, whereas security protects the AI system from malicious external actors(Qi et al. 2024; Khlaaf 2026). Security reporting requires more attacker-centered information (Bieringer et al. 2026). In the remainder of the paper, we focus on security in-cidents. The agent description can potentially be used for safety incidents involving agentic AI, or for incidents where the AI caused an incident. Examples are recent incidents involving OpenAI 2 and Anthropic 3. In these cases, agents exceeded their intended operational boundaries and gained unauthorized access to external systems. These develop-ments underscore the need for systematic agent descriptions. 

## Related Scientific Work 

There is limited related work on incident reports for AI agents. Previous work by MITRE 4 and Bieringer et al. (2024) covers only AI systems. Fazelnia, Moshtari, and Mi-rakhorli (2026) propose a minimal set of reporting elements for AI vulnerabilities, and Cattell and Ghosh (2024) de-scribed a security-centered CVE-like reporting. Other ex-amples for data collection taxonomies and databases focus-ing on AI are the AI incident database (McGregor 2021), AVID, or MITRE Atlas. In addition, Ezell, Roberts-Gaal, and Chan (2025) propose an incident analysis framework that, however, focuses on non-security incidents. The cur-rent work instead focuses on security incidents and on the agent-system gap, which warrants substantial changes to ex-isting approaches. Due to the novelty of the area, few works are covering the specifics of security incident reporting for AI agents. This security focus has concrete implications: in contrast to Ezell, Roberts-Gaal, and Chan (2025), we sug-gest also documenting reads and writes to memory to iden-tify memory tampering, tracking delegation and trust bound-aries to identify the origin of a breach, and finally collect-ing multi-agent architecture and communication to identify threats from emergent behavior. 

## Related Laws and Standards 

There are standards addressing AI and incident reporting, some of which are still under development. As our findings may inform ongoing and future standardization efforts, we provide background in terms of legal requirements and re-lated standards. 

> 2https://openai.com/index/hugging-face-incident-and-the-road-ahead/
> 3https://www.anthropic.com/news/investigating-incidents-cybersecurity-evals
> 4https://ai-incidents.mitre.org

The GPAI Code of Practice Commitment 9 on serious-incident reporting (European AI Office 2025) is the most operationally detailed EU instrument on incident reporting, though it operationalises Article 55(1)(c) for providers of general-purpose AI models with systemic risk and reports to the AI Office rather than through the Article 73 chan-nel. Article 73 (European Parliament, Council 2024) obliges providers of high-risk AI systems to report serious incidents and applies from 2 August 2026, while the Digital Omnibus amendments defer the Chapter III high-risk requirements to 2 December 2027 (Annex III) and 2 August 2028 (Annex I). In general, the GPAI Code acknowledges that information about an incident cannot be reconstructed only retrospec-tively. This aligns with our efforts to understand up-front which information should be collected. The doctrinal archi-tecture for continuous compliance evaluation that Article 72 of the AI Act partially anticipates is developed at greater length in adjacent recent work (Nannini et al. 2026). Un-der Article 75(1a), providers within the AI Office’s exclu-sive competence, which covers systems built on a general-purpose AI model by the same provider, report serious inci-dents to the AI Office rather than to national market surveil-lance authorities. Relevant key international standardization documents in-clude ISO/IEC (2024) 8200 and ISO/IEC (2026) 42105. The former gives the basics of how to make an AI system controllable by an external agent. TS 8200 assumes AI sys-tems and agents as defined in ISO/IEC 22989:2022 and de-liberately does not presume control by a human operator. All that matters is that the control is practically possible and the controller is external to the controlled system. Most AI sys-tems cannot be directly controlled by human operators be-cause critical changes in their internal state are neither ob-servable by humans nor interpretable in real time, making timely and meaningful human intervention difficult or im-possible. The latter ISO/IEC (2026) 42105 describes how to ensure that AI systems’ operations can be overseen by humans on the operational level without relying on other ambiguous and unverifiable criteria. At the same time, new standards are being developed, including protocol standards for agentic interactions (NLIP by ECMA TC56; IETF, LF A2A). However, also existing legislation that seems super-ficially unrelated can become relevant. As an example, con-sider GDPR (European Parliament and Council of the Eu-ropean Union 2016) and its requirements on privacy, that incident reports will have to respect, too. To conclude, the exact interactions, content, and require-ments of these emerging standards have yet to be defined. 

# Describing Agentic Incidents 

The background section identifies three key distinctions be-tween AI agents and conventional AI systems: trajectory-level behavior, expanded capabilities, and the use of mul-tiple AI models. Before examining their implications, we outline the goals of incident reporting, including documen-tation, reproducibility, and forensics and general technical challenges, as well as human and social aspects. We then discuss how the difference between AI agents and systems shape the information in agentic AI incident reports, also summarized in Table 1. 

Reproducibility versus Forensics. The precise goal of incident reporting (Ebert et al. 2025) remains undefined. Be-yond mere documentation, incident reporting could serve to reproduce an incident. It may also provide information rel-evant to auditing and liability assessments. Previous work has also found that incident reporting can support the iden-tification of new malicious actors (Wagner et al. 2019). Fur-thermore, verifiable forensics evidence may be necessary to support legal proceedings and meet applicable evidentiary requirements (Normattiva Codice di procedura penale: art. 220 1988; Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure 2025; Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals 1993). En-suring such forensic readiness should therefore be an inte-gral part of the agentic system lifecycle rather than an ex post facto activity. Such requirements have to be weighted against intellectual property and other privacy requirements, for example, those imposed by the GDPR. 

Technical Challenges. The incident reporting covers po-tentially parallel-running distributed systems and their chal-lenges, like delays, inconsistent clocks and their implica-tions, and data inconsistencies across instances, for exam-ple. 

Sociotechnical Challenges. Incidents occur at the inter-section between humans and agents. There may thus be no single truth of what happened, but different ‘realities’ (Ebert et al. 2023). This is further amplified by both the complexity of agents and their cultural and psychological interplay with a user. Another important aspect of the real-world deploy-ment of agents is their potential to operate across multiple jurisdictions. This may require compliance frameworks that allow agents to interact only with systems that meet com-mon legal or policy requirements. For example, an agent may need to verify that another subsystem complies with the GDPR before sharing personal data with it. How such cross-jurisdictional issues should be addressed legally and technically remains an open question, highlighting the need to investigate non-technical aspects of agentic AI security incidents. 

Open Research Problems Enabling the repro-ducibility and forensic analysis though incident report-ing and understanding trade-offs with intellectual prop-erty and privacy are areas for future research. Such re-search has to consider the utility of the reports for dif-ferent stakeholders, including practitioners, companies, and legal entities.Sociotechnical aspects like the psy-chological interaction with humans should be studied, as well as a legal and technical understanding derived about agents potentially spanning several jurisdictions. 

## Describing the agent and its trajectory 

Due to the trajectory-like nature, the incident should be de-scribed as a trajectory that ultimately leads to the incident-relevant state. The existence of such trajectories has been recognized in EU law, Articles 12, 19 and 26(6) (European Parliament, Council 2024), requiring logging throughout the system’s lifetime, with logs retained for at least six months. However, these provisions do not prescribe specific fields for tool calls, memory writes, or delegation, and the six-month minimum retention period may expire before an incremen-tally seeded compromise is recognized. In the interest of the reporting party and for security reasons, logging may thus be more extensive in practice than legally required. Run-time trace. Any available runtime trace and state should be collected, such as message histories, connected systems, and execution logs. These latter entail tool use and subsys-tems, which we discuss in detail later. The documentation of this runtime trace must be extensive to enable traceabil-ity and attribution. Also output tokens for reasoning need to be saved. Monitoring these reasoning traces and communi-cation with the user can, for example, help identify attacks targeting the reasoning process (Hu et al. 2026). However, such extensive logging entails trade-offs between forensic value, storage and processing overhead, and data-protection requirements such as data minimization that are yet to be investigated in depth. Even more relevant, however, is the agent’s input, or con-text, which is defined as all tokens available for processing by the AI model within the agent (Vaswani et al. 2017). Col-lecting as much of this context as possible, especially over the trajectory of the agent, is crucial, especially for more complex agents (Guo et al. 2024; Hadfield et al. 2025). Pos-sible vulnerabilities within the context are rather indirect. Instead of targeting the model itself, an attack exploits weak-nesses in context handling and in model output. As manip-ulated context may exist only temporarily before or during execution and may not persist after the incident (Ferrag et al. 2025), it is crucial to store the full context in a tamper-proof format. 

Memory and external data sources. Although memory and external data constitute a subset of the context, we de-scribe it separately in more detail. In contrast to the agent’s runtime trace, most of the memory, or external data sources, are static. They need to be recorded with either a versioning number, or in full if no versioning is available or the mem-ory is writable by the agent. Also, the full provenance of any retrieved or injected external data must be recorded. Despite an implicit entailment in the provenance, we suggest to ex-plicitly document the data sources accessible to the agent and the associated trust management mechanisms (Ferrag et al. 2025; Lin, Li, and Chen 2026; Das et al. 2026). While the features described above are relatively static, memory re-sources may change over time, and these changes should be recorded in a tamper-resistant manner. 

Autonomy. Agentic AI autonomy influences greatly the trajectory leading to an incident. It increases the velocity of the agents’ progress and at the same time the difficulty for human oversight and intervention. Autonomy can vary in degree and is therefore best understood as a spectrum along which an agent can be characterized. For example, if an agent wrote code that made private data public, but a hu-man ultimately pressed “approve” on this code and opted to deploy it, then this is on one side of the spectrum. At the other side of the spectrum, a user may authorize an AI agent to act continuously without human intervention, allowing it to execute insecure code without prior human oversight. This spectrum is defined during the design phase, describ-ing theoretical (intended) autonomy of an agent. This auton-omy may vary by action type, component, accessed tool, or point of execution. Consequently, there is a concrete auton-omy instantiation on this spectrum that defines the agent’s autonomy throughout the trajectory leading to the incident. This effective autonomy is crucial for understanding the in-cident. 

Elements to be documented are the agent’s con-text and trajectory, including runtime trace, memory, external data provenance and the agent’s autonomy level by design and in effect over time. 

Open Research Problems Efficiently collecting, processing, versioning, and storing the information re-quired to describe the agent, as well as automatically detecting security incidents, remain open research ques-tions. Reducing the volume of data that must be stored while preserving information in a tamper-resistant man-ner requires further research, although some approaches to tamper resistance have been explored (Avizheh et al. 2026). Lastly, future work has to tackle how to docu-ment autonomy. 

## Describing Agentic Capabilities 

The way that agents interface with their surrounding is also a crucial difference from non-agentic AI. While AI systems may also interact with their environment, agents’ capabili-ties are more complex, with more tool interactions, in poten-tially shorter time-frames. Here, we focus on tools, impact on the underlying operating system, and delegation. 

Tools. The usage of tools is a defining characteristic of AI agents and major source of security risks and implica-tions. Similar to autonomy, tool usage in agentic systems is not a fixed property established at development time but a dynamic decision made by an AI agent at runtime. In other words, the theoretical ability to use a tool and its actual use during the incident may differ. Thus, it is crucial to doc-ument actual tool use during the incident (Ezell, Roberts-Gaal, and Chan 2025). The difference between planned and actual tool use may vary greatly, as has been found, for ex-ample, in Android security, where applications often request more capabilities (e.g., App permissions) than they actually use at runtime (Felt et al. 2011). Tracking the exact tool and tool use is relevant in several scenarios. An incident may occur due to tool malfunction, wrong tool selection, incorrect arguments, or inappropriate tool sequence. Tools can serve as vectors for data poisoning or other forms of compromise, like, for example, credential-stealing malware. At the same time, trusted and benign tools may lead to an incident if the calling agent is prompt in-jected. Such subtle differences in tool use have to be distin-guishable to understand incidents and prevent similar events in the future. Lastly, we need to keep track of any tool’s au-thentication tokens to allow traceability, attribution, identity management and permissions. Impact on OS and environment. A consequence of tool use is that an agent’s impact may extend beyond a single tool to the underlying operating system and broader system en-vironment. In contrast to classic machine learning that out-puts a prediction or generates content, an agent can inter-act with and affect an underlying system in a more complex way. For example, a coding agent could produce insecure code that is executed or deployed. Agents may therefore also contribute to non-AI security incidents. Several researchers have consequently argued that agentic AI security must be approached as a systems security problem: the AI model powering the agent must be treated as an untrusted compo-nent, and security invariants must be enforced at the system level (Christodorescu et al. 2026). The extensive body of re-search in operating systems, networks, formal methods, and adversarial machine learning provides a set of core princi-ples, grounded in decades of systems security research, that form a foundation for designing agentic systems with pre-dictable security guarantees. An example of how classical security is applicable to agents is the semantic gap. Consider, for example, web agents. Low-level events (e.g. user clicked on a certain re-gion of the webpage) are often not suitable for security incident reporting, because they lack interpretable seman-tics (Piet et al. 2026). Ideally, these low-level events should be mapped to high-level events (e.g. user clicked on the ap-prove button on the webpage), which can then be meaning-fully reported. Such mappings may allow established non-AI incident-reporting approaches to be applied to agent ac-tions; however, the boundary between AI and non-AI se-curity incidents remains difficult to define (Bieringer et al. 2026). 

Delegation. In the context of tool work, autonomy takes a special twist. A task received by an agent may have been delegated by a human user or another agent. This inadver-tently raises the question of identity management and docu-mentation. For example, we need to document whether the agent has been operating on behalf of a specific user (i.e., with the permissions and access of that user), or as a sepa-rate non-human identity (i.e., with a potentially different set of permissions). The identity used for each tool call at the time of the incident is therefore important for understanding the incident and determining whether it resulted from im-proper identity management or the circumvention of access controls. A related question concerns the origin of the incident. Al-though the initiator of the process may have caused the inci-dent, it could as well have been caused by the delegate’s in-put data, a malicious delegate, a malicious tool, faulty com-munication across agents, or issues in the agent’s deploy-ment. Documenting delegation to allow determining these differences is thus crucial. Lastly, delegation necessitates clear trust boundaries between user and system, since an AI agent can faithfully execute dangerous instructions from a trusted, authenticated user. Based on the threat model con-sidered, the latter example may or may not constitute a se-curity incident (Ayzenberg and Singal 2025; Beurer-Kellner, Fischer, and Milanta 2025; Willison 2025). Consequently, trust boundaries between components, including how trust is managed during delegation and communication, should be documented for incidents. 

Elements to be documented are possible and ac-tual (over time) tool use, interactions with the under-lying operating system, original entity that initiated an action, defined trust boundaries. 

Open Research Problems Describing tool use and the agent’s effect on the operating system and broader environment without falling into the “semantic gap” be-tween low- and high-level events presents an interesting and challenging problem (Piet et al. 2026), for which existing solutions from non-AI security may be adapt-able (Fu and Lin 2012). Similarly, tracking the cause of an incident though delegation involving authentica-tion tokens remains an open problem and raises again the trade-offs between protecting confidential informa-tion and the need for effective incident reporting. So-lutions developed for managing privacy–utility trade-offs in data release may be useful for this line of re-search (Nanayakkara et al. 2022). Lastly, the interac-tion between the agent and the environment raises the question of when to use traditional security reporting or reporting designed for agentic AI incidents. 

## Agent subcomponents and orchestration 

The composition of an agentic system routinely includes other AI systems such as sub-agents, retrieval models, clas-sifier guards, and judge models, each with their own func-tions and permissions. These subcomponents may further be characterized by their own runtime trace, state, memory, context, as stated in the previous section, and additionally connections to other agents. It is also possible to combine the APIs of two existing distinct agents in a new agent, or generate code, tools, even an transient agents. Fully describ-ing such a system for incident reporting purposes, therefore, requires accounting for all of these components and agents, and their relationships, as we discuss in this subsection. 

Communication across components. While the compo-sition may be somewhat fixed during design, an orchestra-tor agent dynamically decides at runtime which sub-agents to invoke. Multi-agent coordination introduces distinct fail-ure modes including miscoordination, conflict, and collu-sion (Hammond et al. 2025), where the latter describes a ma-licious, secret agreement. As with other distributed systems, communication and information-exchange patterns should be carefully logged or represented to enable the monitor-ing and reconstruction of potential failure modes (de Witt et al. 2025). This may imply that components must im-plement certain tamper resistant reporting requirements to form part of an AI agent and its permitted interaction envi-ronment. In addition, communication protocols and mecha-nisms used to coordinate autonomous execution need to be documented (Li et al. 2024; Yan et al. 2025). More con-cretely, orchestration protocols effectively become part of the attack surface or enable incidents as they govern dele-gation, context propagation, tool invocation, and inter-agent communication (Louck, Stulman, and Dvir 2026). Concrete security examples in this context are insufficient authenti-cation, weak message integrity guarantees, missing prove-nance metadata (e.g. access rights to a document), unsafe serialization, unclear authority semantics, or an ambigu-ous distinction between instructions and data. In particu-lar, jailbreaks or malicious instructions may propagate au-tonomously between agents through standard communica-tion channels (Lee and Tiwari 2024). As protocol and or-chestration exploits present a major emerging class of agen-tic AI vulnerabilities (Ferrag et al. 2025), incident report-ing should capture relevant information about the agentic AI system organization and inter-agent interaction. 

Emergent behaviors. Agentic AI incidents and vulnera-bilities can be a pure run-time artifact, emerging from the dynamic interaction between components during execution through the agent’s reasoning and actions, which can be non-deterministic. Each of the internal components or models may perform as expected, while a vulnerability or an inci-dent may arise from some interaction between these sys-tems. In other words, no single model is vulnerable, but the vulnerability is an implicit property of the system as a whole. 

Elements to be documented are the defined and actual (at runtime) multi-agent architecture, inter-agent communication, associated identities and permissions, information exchange patterns, orchestration and com-munication protocols and protocol versions. 

Open Research Problems Understanding how to document incidents in the context of emergent behav-iors and how to enforce documentation in each compo-nent remains an open research question. This holds par-ticularly as it is unclear how long pre- and post activity has to be logged to enable incident identification. 

# Security and privacy risks of reports 

Agents, with their complexity, autonomy and understanding of natural language, bring unique challenges to AI security incident reporting. We discuss these challenges, focusing on the security of incident reports and confidential data leakage. If programmed or compromised to do so, agents may ma-nipulate logs or access patterns to conceal malicious activ-ity. In particular, an attacker who is aware of the reporting scheme may deliberately craft attacks that will make them invisible in incident reports. That poses an additional threat to the integrity and transparency of the reporting process. How to ensure the completeness and reliability of incident reports therefore remains an open research question. While attacks targeting forensic methods are well studied in non-AI security (Jain and Chhabra 2014), they remain largely unexplored in the context of AI agents, which may alter their behavior based on report filing. Nevertheless, adapting established security measures from traditional systems is a promising research direction. Another threat assumes an attacker may target a critical system that mandates reporting with the sole goal of causing intellectual property or confidential information to be dis-closed through the resulting incident report. This highlights an important distinction between the evidence that needs to be logged for incident reconstruction and the information ul-timately disclosed in an incident report. Extensive logging, which may be required to support reproducibility and in-telligence gathering, can capture sensitive information that is neither necessary nor desirable to disclose. Determining what evidence should be reported and at what level of gran-ularity therefore remains an open research question. A so-lution to such a release of information is to publish reports only in aggregate. However, knowing such release rules en-able Sybill attacks. In other words, carefully crafted reports could be combined with publicly available aggregate infor-mation to infer sensitive details about a competitor’s inci-dent, potentially resulting in a confidentiality breach. A further security risk arises when information protected as intellectual property or under regulations such as the GDPR is hidden in reports using steganography (Agarwal 2013). While this is not a new threat, larger amounts of re-ported information facilitate information hiding (Ker et al. 2008). As agentic AI incident reports may contain more in-formation, they may be particularly susceptible to such at-tacks. Lastly, when agents are used for incident report filing or analysis, vulnerabilities in these agents may be exploited to disclose or embed information that was not intended for re-lease. 

Open Research Problems The security, confiden-tiality and completeness of incident reports, as well as corresponding features of the possible agent reporters, remain important areas for future research. This in-cludes determining what evidence should be logged and preserved and what subset should ultimately be dis-closed in incident reports. 

# Implications 

AI (security) incident reporting is a rapidly evolving field, driven by continuous changes in technology, legislation, and deployment settings. Agents have the potential to largely in-crease the breadth of harms, as well as the complexity of incident identification, documentation, and reporting. Man-aging the incurred risks is thus crucial and requires fur-ther research into appropriate incident reporting approaches tailored to agentic AI systems. Moreover, regulators need appropriate technical standardization tooling to effectively achieve their policy goals. We therefore discuss the implica-tions for research,standardization and legislation. 

## Open research questions 

Our work highlights significant gaps in the state of the art that need to be addressed to allow efficient and effective in-cident reporting for agentic AI. For example, it remains an open question what informa-tion within an incident report is mandatory and what should be optional. This is crucial in the context of other open ques-tions, such as what information is needed to support re-producibility, forensics, and incident generalization, while avoiding an administrative burden that leads to secondary failures. In addition, forensic methods and other approaches are required to enable efficient and automated identifica-tion of agentic incidents. Beyond this technical details, in-cidents occur in socio-technical systems at the intersection between humans and agents. There may thus not be a sin-gle truth of what happened, but different ‘realities’ (Ebert et al. 2023). This is further amplified by both the complex-ity of agents and their cultural and psychological interplay with the user (Liu et al. 2024). Another dimension where the embedding in the real world becomes obvious is that agents may span jurisdictions. This may imply the need of a compliance framework, allowing only agents to partici-pate if they all follow some common guidelines, obey cer-tain policies, or protocols. An example could be agents hav-ing to verify GDPR compliance of all other systems they share information with. How such problems should be han-dled legally and can be handled technically is still open. In summary, also non-technical aspects should be researched. Lastly and most importantly, we should understand emerging vulnerabilities in the incidents reports themselves, like data leakage or the exploitation of reporting structures to design attacks that evade or undermine incident reporting for agentic AI systems. Assessing such threats in general but also with respect to a concrete report scheme is highly rel-evant. Consequently, incident reports should provide appro-priate confidentiality and integrity guarantees and, ideally, be tamper-resistant or tamper-evident. 

## Legislation and Standards 

In contrast to many of open research questions discussed above, which require in-depth investigation, some implica-tions for agentic AI incident reporting can be already identi-fied. In particular, existing reporting schemes should be ex-panded to incorporate the information requirements identi-fied in this paper. Regarding privacy, a possible solution based on research results is to adopt a fine-grained scheme depending on whether a report is publicly released, required for repro-ducibility or in a court case. In general, standardized reports should be privacy-friendly by avoiding narrative text, while providing categoric entries which remain coarse enough that each category is populated by a sufficient number of reports. This creates a deliberate granularity trade-off. Categories must be fine-grained enough to capture relevant distinctions between incidents, but not so fine-grained that rare cate-gory combinations become effectively identifying or disap-pear under the noise, thresholding, or suppression used by a differentially private release mechanism (Dwork and Roth 2014; Aum¨ uller, Lebeda, and Pagh 2021). An example of such a framework is VERIS (VERIS Community 2026). In general, an agreement on the right level of protection is necessary. For example, concerns about exposing IP can lead to under-reporting, as witnessed in the Biological Weapons Convention verification gap (Lentzos 2019). A counterex-ample is aviation occurrence reporting under Regulation (EU) No 376/2014, which pairs mandatory and voluntary schemes with just culture and mandatory de-identification, showing that a reporting duty and non-punitive treatment of the reporter are compatible. A similar approach could sup-port the AI Act Article 73 reporting obligations (European Parliament, Council 2024) falling on providers. That obliga-tion is triggered by harm as defined in Article 3(49), not by compromise, so the agentic vulnerabilities cited above fall outside it unless they produce such harm. 

# Conclusion 

This paper synthesizes the perspectives of 23 academic and industry experts on AI agents security incident reporting. We have identified open research questions concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of agentic AI incident report-ing, as well as the information needed to support the de-tection of incidents in agentic AI systems. We also derived a preliminary reporting scheme (see Table 1), that specifies the information to be captured in such reports. Expert in-put further highlighted general security and confidentiality challenges that may arise when reporting incidents involv-ing AI agents, including information leakage and adversarial attacks targeting the reporting process itself. We have sum-marized the implications of these findings for legislation and standardization, highlighting both the changes needed in ex-isting frameworks and the challenges the research commu-nity must address to enable trustworthy AI incident report-ing and thus trustworthy AI. Without reporting mechanisms that capture autonomy, delegation, memory, and agent in-teractions, many agentic AI security incidents will remain difficult to understand, reproduce, and ultimately prevent. 

# Acknowledgments 

The authors would like to thank Rudolf Mayer to connect Kathrin and Anastasia for this project. Juliane Hoffmann ac-knowledges support by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) as part of the Re-search and Training Group 2475 ”Cybercrime and Forensic Computing” (grant number 393541319/GRK2475/2-2024). Table 1: Agentic AI System Elements Relevant to Security Incident Reporting. 

Element Description Describing the agent and its trajectory 

Message histories Full record of messages between agent and user Reasoning tokens All tokens produced during reasoning steps Data provenance Full provenance and/or version of external data, or data itself if custom Data writes/reads All data read and all changes written Theoretical autonomy Possible autonomy allowed by design Effective autonomy Actual autonomy exercised at time of incident 

Describing Agent’s Capabilities 

Defined Trust boundaries Trust environments, limits in high-trust elements, etc. Available tools Accessible tools by design, with versions Effective tool use Exact tools invoked, arguments passed, responses re-ceived Interaction with OS Any actions taken on the underlying operating system Agent identity For permissions, tool use, etc Delegation chain Full chain of delegation from human/agent initiator Authentication tokens Tokens used for authentication or tool use 

Agent sub-components and orchestration 

Defined Multi-agent architecture Defined architecture with all agents and their function Actual Multi-agent architecture Invoked agents and their function during trajectory and incident Orchestration protocols Orchestration protocols and coordination mechanisms in use Communication logs All inter-agent messages exchanged during execution References 

Agarwal, M. 2013. TEXT STEGANOGRAPHIC AP-PROACHES: A COMPARISON. International Journal of Network Security & Its Applications , 5(1): 91. Apruzzese, G.; Anderson, H. S.; Dambra, S.; Freeman, D.; Pierazzi, F.; and Roundy, K. 2023. “Real attackers don’t compute gradients”: Bridging the gap between adversarial ML research and practice. In Proc. IEEE Conf. Secure Trust-worthy Mach. Learn. (SaTML) , 339–364. IEEE. Aum¨ uller, M.; Lebeda, C. J.; and Pagh, R. 2021. Differen-tially Private Sparse Vectors with Low Error, Optimal Space, and Fast Access. arXiv:2106.10068. Avizheh, S.; Mallick, T.; Oprea, A.; Nita-Rotaru, C.; and Safavi-Naini, R. 2026. MAGIQ: A Post-Quantum Multi-Agentic AI Governance System with Provable Security. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.06933 .Ayzenberg, M.; and Singal, T. 2025. Agents Rule of Two: A Practical Approach to AI Agent Security. Meta AI Blog, https://ai.meta.com/blog/practical-ai-agent-security/. Pub-lished 31 October 2025. Beurer-Kellner, L.; Fischer, M.; and Milanta, M. 2025. GitHub MCP Exploited: Accessing private repositories via MCP. Invariant Labs Blog, https://invariantlabs.ai/blog/ mcp-github-vulnerability. Published 26 May 2025. Bieringer, L.; McGregor, S.; Nichols, N.; Paeth, K.; Paverd, A.; St¨ angler, J.; Wespi, A.; Alahi, A.; and Grosse, K. 2024. Practice-Informed, Practice-Ready: An AI security incident taxonomy. ArXiv, 2412.14855 .Bieringer, L.; McGregor, S.; Nichols, N.; Paeth, K.; St¨ angler, J.; Wespi, A.; Alahi, A.; and Grosse, K. 2026. Po-sition: Mind the Gap-the Growing Disconnect Between Es-tablished Vulnerability Disclosure and AI Security. In Proc. IEEE Conf. Secure Trustworthy Mach. Learn. (SaTML) ,339–364. IEEE. Biggio, B.; and Roli, F. 2018. Wild patterns: Ten years after the rise of adversarial machine learning. In Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and com-munications security , 2154–2156. Bisconti, P.; Prandi, M.; Pierucci, F.; Sartore, F.; Panai, E.; Caroli, L.; Zhu, Y.; Smith, A. L.; Nannini, L.; Galisai, M.; et al. 2026. Boiling the Frog: A Multi-Turn Benchmark for Agentic Safety. arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.22643 .Brachemi Meftah, H. F.; Hamidouche, W.; Fezza, S. A.; and Deforges, O. 2026. Energy-Latency Attacks: A New Adver-sarial Threat to Deep Learning. ACM Computing Surveys ,58(8): 1–34. Cattell, S.; and Ghosh, A. 2024. Coordinated Disclosure for AI: Beyond Security Vulnerabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.07039 .Christodorescu, M.; Fernandes, E.; Hooda, A.; Jha, S.; Re-hberger, J.; Chaudhuri, K.; Fu, X.; Shams, K.; Amir, G.; Choi, J.; et al. 2026. Agent Security is a Systems Problem. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.18991 .Cin` a, A. E.; Grosse, K.; Demontis, A.; Vascon, S.; Zellinger, W.; Moser, B. A.; Oprea, A.; Biggio, B.; Pelillo, M.; and Roli, F. 2023. Wild patterns reloaded: A survey of machine learning security against training data poisoning. ACM Com-puting Surveys , 55(13s): 1–39. Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure. 2025. Agenda Book - Advisory Committee on Evidence Rules: Proposed Federal Rule of Evidence 707 and Committee Note. Das, D.; Piet, J.; Kaviani, D.; Beurer-Kellner, L.; Tram` er, F.; and Wagner, D. 2026. Trojan Hippo: Weaponizing Agent Memory for Data Exfiltration. CoRR , abs/2605.01970. Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals. 1993. 509 U.S. 579. U.S. Supreme Court. Available at https://supreme. justia.com/cases/federal/us/509/579/. de Witt, C. S.; Krawiecka, K.; Krawczuk, I.; Hagag, B.; An-derson, W. L.; Belcak, P.; Bucknall, B.; Cai, X.; Chopra, A.; Cohen, D.; et al. 2025. Open challenges in multi-agent secu-rity: Towards secure systems of interacting ai agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.02077 .Dwork, C.; and Roth, A. 2014. The Algorithmic Foundations of Differential Privacy , volume 9 of Foundations and Trends in Theoretical Computer Science .Ebert, N.; Schaltegger, T.; Ambuehl, B.; Geppert, T.; Tram-mell, A.; Knieps, M.; and Zimmermann, V. 2025. Learning from safety science: designing incident reporting systems in cybersecurity. Journal of Cybersecurity , 11(1): tyaf019. Ebert, N.; Schaltegger, T.; Ambuehl, B.; Sch¨ oni, L.; Zim-mermann, V.; and Knieps, M. 2023. Learning from safety science: A way forward for studying cybersecurity incidents in organizations. Computers & Security , 134: 103435. European AI Office. 2025. General-Purpose AI Code of Practice (final version, 10 July 2025). Technical report, Eu-ropean Commission. Commitment 9 (Serious Incident Re-porting), justification paragraph. European Parliament and Council of the European Union. 2016. Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parlia-ment and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). Official Journal of the European Union, L 119, 1–88. European Parliament, Council. 2024. Regulation (EU) 2024/1689 (Artificial Intelligence Act). Article 73 (Report-ing of serious incidents). Ezell, C.; Roberts-Gaal, X.; and Chan, A. 2025. Incident analysis for AI agents. In Proc. AAAI/ACM Conf. AI, Ethics, Soc. , volume 8, 865–878. Fazelnia, M.; Moshtari, S.; and Mirakhorli, M. 2026. Estab-lishing Minimum Elements for Effective Vulnerability Man-agement in AI Software . Computer , 59(04): 40–50. Felt, A. P.; Chin, E.; Hanna, S.; Song, D.; and Wagner, D. 2011. Android permissions demystified. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM conference on Computer and communications security , 627–638. Ferrag, M. A.; et al. 2025. From Prompt Injections to Pro-tocol Exploits: Threats in LLM-Powered AI Agents Work-flows. Computers & Security .Fu, Y.; and Lin, Z. 2012. Space traveling across vm: Auto-matically bridging the semantic gap in virtual machine in-trospection via online kernel data redirection. In 2012 IEEE symposium on security and privacy , 586–600. IEEE. Gailmard, L.; Spence, D.; Lawrence, C.; and Ho, D. E. 2025. Known Unknowns and Unknown Unknowns: Designing a Scalable Adverse Event Reporting System for AI. Proceed-ings of the AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Soci-ety , 8(2): 1004–1017. Greshake, K.; Abdelnabi, S.; Mishra, S.; Endres, C.; Holz, T.; and Fritz, M. 2023. Not what you’ve signed up for: Com-promising real-world llm-integrated applications with indi-rect prompt injection. In Proceedings of the 16th ACM work-shop on artificial intelligence and security , 79–90. Grosse, K.; Bieringer, L.; Besold, T. R.; Biggio, B.; and Alahi, A. 2024. When your ai becomes a target: Ai secu-rity incidents and best practices. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , volume 38, 23041– 23046. Guilherme Jr, E. 2026. GenAI & Agentic AI Security Inci-dents. Guo, T.; Chen, X.; Wang, Y.; Chang, R.; Pei, S.; Chawla, N. V.; Wiest, O.; and Zhang, X. 2024. Large Language Model Based Multi-agents: A Survey of Progress and Chal-lenges. In IJCAI , 8048–8057. ijcai.org. Hadfield, J.; Zhang, B.; Lien, K.; Scholz, F.; Fox, J.; and Ford, D. 2025. How we built our multi-agent research sys-tem. Anthropic Engineering Blog, https://www.anthropic. com/engineering/multi-agent-research-system. Published 13 June 2025. Hammond, L.; Chan, A.; Clifton, J.; Hoelscher-Obermaier, J.; Khan, A.; McLean, E.; Smith, C.; Barfuss, W.; Foerster, J.; Gavenˇ ciak, T.; et al. 2025. Multi-agent risks from ad-vanced ai. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.14143 .Hu, M.; Wu, X.; Suo, Z.; Feng, J.; Meng, L.; Jia, Y.; Tuan, L. A.; and Zhao, S. 2026. Rethinking reasoning: A survey on reasoning-based backdoors in llms. Findings of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2026 , 17437– 17456. ISO. 2018. Information Technology; Security Tech-niques; Information Security Management Systems Based on ISO/IEC 27000 . International Organization for Standard-ization. ISO/IEC. 2024. Information technology — Artificial intelli-gence — Controllability of automated artificial intelligence systems. Technical Report TS 8200:2024. ISO/IEC. 2026. Information technology — Artificial intelli-gence — Guidance for human oversight of AI systems. Final Draft International Standard FDIS 42105. Jain, A.; and Chhabra, G. S. 2014. Anti-forensics tech-niques: An analytical review. In 2014 Seventh International Conference on Contemporary Computing (IC3) , 412–418. IEEE. Ker, A. D.; Pevn` y, T.; Kodovsk` y, J.; and Fridrich, J. 2008. The square root law of steganographic capacity. In Proceed-ings of the 10th ACM workshop on Multimedia and security ,107–116. Khlaaf, H. 2026. Toward Comprehensive Risk Assessments and Assurance of AI-Based Systems. Lee, D.; and Tiwari, M. 2024. Prompt Infection: LLM-to-LLM Prompt Injection within Multi-Agent Systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.07283 .Lentzos, F. 2019. Compliance and enforcement in the bio-logical weapons regime. Li, G.; Hammoud, H.; Itani, H.; Khizbullin, D.; and Ghanem, B. 2023. Camel: Communicative agents for” mind” exploration of large language model society. Ad-vances in neural information processing systems , 36: 51991–52008. Li, X.; et al. 2024. A Survey on LLM-based Multi-Agent Systems: Workflow, Infrastructure, and Challenges. Artifi-cial Intelligence Review .Li, Y.; Luo, H.; Xie, Y.; Fu, Y.; Yang, Z.; Shao, S.; Ren, Q.; Qu, W.; Fu, Y.; Yang, Y.; et al. 2026. Atbench: A diverse and realistic trajectory benchmark for long-horizon agent safety. 

arXiv e-prints , arXiv–2604. Lin, Z.; Li, C.; and Chen, K. 2026. A Survey on the Security of Long-Term Memory in LLM Agents: Toward Mnemonic Sovereignty. CoRR , abs/2604.16548. Liu, Z.; Li, H.; Chen, A.; Zhang, R.; and Lee, Y.-C. 2024. Understanding public perceptions of AI conversa-tional agents: A cross-cultural analysis. In Proceedings of the 2024 CHI conference on human factors in computing systems , 1–17. Louck, Y.; Stulman, A.; and Dvir, A. 2026. Security Analy-sis of Agentic AI Communication Protocols: A Comparative Evaluation. ACM Transactions on AI Security and Privacy .McGregor, S. 2021. Preventing repeated real world AI fail-ures by cataloging incidents: The AI incident database. In 

Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence , volume 35, 15458–15463. MITRE Corporation. 2024. CVE-2024-5565: Vanna prompt injection to RCE. https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename. cgi?name=CVE-2024-5565. Accessed: 2026-06-04. Nanayakkara, P.; Bater, J.; He, X.; Hullman, J.; and Rogers, J. 2022. Visualizing Privacy-Utility Trade-Offs in Differen-tially Private Data Releases. Proceedings on Privacy En-hancing Technologies .Nannini, L.; Smith, A. L.; Maggini, M. J.; Panai, E.; Feli-ciano, S.; Tiulkanov, A.; Maran, E.; Gealy, J.; and Bisconti, P. 2026. AI Agents Under EU Law: A Compliance Archi-tecture for AI Providers. arXiv:2604.04604 .Normattiva Codice di procedura penale: art. 220. 1988. C.p.p. art. 220. Available at https://www.normattiva.it/uri-res/N2Ls?urn:nir:stato:codice.procedura.penale:1988-09-22;447!vig=. OECD. 2024. Defining AI incidents and related terms. Tech-nical report, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. OECD. 2024. Explanatory memorandum on the updated OECD definition of an AI system. https://doi.org/10.1787/ 623da898-en. Accessed: 2025-01-27. OECD. 2026. OECD AI Incidents Monitor (AIM). Ac-cessed: 2026-06-22, Available at https://oecd.ai/en/. Oliynyk, D.; Mayer, R.; and Rauber, A. 2023. I know what you trained last summer: A survey on stealing machine learning models and defences. ACM Computing Surveys ,55(14s): 1–41. Piet, J.; Chow, A.; Hou, Y.; Lyu, M.; Venuto, S.; Zhu, J.; Popa, R. A.; and Wagner, D. 2026. Web Agents Should Adopt the Plan-Then-Execute Paradigm. arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.14290 .Qi, X.; Huang, Y.; Zeng, Y.; Debenedetti, E.; Geiping, J.; He, L.; Huang, K.; Madhushani, U.; Sehwag, V.; Shi, W.; Wei, B.; Xie, T.; Chen, D.; Chen, P.-Y.; Ding, J.; Jia, R.; Ma, J.; Narayanan, A.; Su, W. J.; Wang, M.; Xiao, C.; Li, B.; Song, D.; Henderson, P.; and Mittal, P. 2024. AI Risk Management Should Incorporate Both Safety and Security. arXiv:2405.19524. Reddy, P.; and Gujral, A. S. 2025. EchoLeak: The First Real-World Zero-Click Prompt Injection Exploit in a Production LLM System. In Proceedings of the AAAI Symposium Se-ries , volume 7, 303–311. Sapkota, R.; Roumeliotis, K. I.; and Karkee, M. 2025. Ai agents vs. agentic ai: A conceptual taxonomy, applications and challenges. Information Fusion , 103599. Strom, B. E.; Applebaum, A.; Miller, D. P.; Nickels, K. C.; Pennington, A. G.; and Thomas, C. B. 2020. MITRE ATT&CK: Design and Philosophy. Technical Re-port MP180360R1, The MITRE Corporation, McLean, VA. Originally published July 2018, revised March 2020. Vaswani, A.; Shazeer, N.; Parmar, N.; Uszkoreit, J.; Jones, L.; Gomez, A. N.; Kaiser, Ł.; and Polosukhin, I. 2017. At-tention is all you need. Advances in neural information pro-cessing systems , 30. VERIS Community. 2026. The VERIS Framework. Ac-cessed 2026-06-25. Wagner, T. D.; Mahbub, K.; Palomar, E.; and Abdallah, A. E. 2019. Cyber threat intelligence sharing: Survey and research directions. Computers & Security , 87: 101589. Wei, K.; and Heim, L. 2026. Designing Incident Reporting Systems for Harms from General-Purpose AI. Proc. AAAI Conf. Artif. Intell. , 40(44): 38016–38029. Willison, S. 2025. The lethal trifecta for AI agents: private data, untrusted content, and external communication. https: //simonwillison.net/2025/Jun/16/the-lethal-trifecta/. Pub-lished 16 June 2025. Yan, B.; et al. 2025. Beyond Self-Talk: A Communication-Centric Survey of LLM-Based Multi-Agent Systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.14321 .