Title: Canonical Procedural Actions: An Auditable Annotation Protocol for Tool-Use Agent Traces

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.24264v1

Published Time: Tue, 22 Sep 2026 02:19:16 GMT

Number of Pages: 23

Markdown Content:
# Canonical Procedural Actions: An Auditable Annotation Protocol for Tool-Use Agent Traces 

## Songqi Li *1 , Dongqing Li †2 , and Zheqiao Cheng ‡3 

> 1

Cambridge Language Sciences, Raised Faculty Building, Sidgwick Avenue, Cambridge CB3 9DA, United Kingdom 

> 2

Department of Statistics, University of Oxford, 24–29 St Giles’, Oxford OX1 3LB, United Kingdom 

> 3

Zhejiang University, China 

## September 2026 

Abstract 

Tool-use agent traces identify messages and API calls, but procedural analyses also need explicit units of action and inspectable links to their evidence. We present Canonical Procedural Actions (CPA S), an annotation protocol that records a procedural function, its first agent-event anchor, the agent events that realize it, and separate contextual evidence. Multiple actions may share a message anchor without an inferred within-message order. A retail case study produces a versioned 24-entry codebook through open induction, recorded consolidation, and successive application audits. Two isolated LLM contexts annotate 32 trajectories disjoint from development at the trajectory level, producing 499 and 491 occurrences with anchor–label overlap A = 0 .982 . Requiring identical context-event references reduces overlap to 0.798 . These are structural repeatability measures, not semantic accuracy: 16 of 26 task IDs also occur in development, and historical tool payloads were truncated to 110 characters. Retrospective controls show that collapsing all labels raises overlap to 0.986 , while simple endpoint rules reproduce the tool-anchored portion with 0.997 overlap. Assistant-message actions have 0.971 overlap, with a per-label minimum of 0.816 . Applying the frozen codebook to 244 further trajectories yields 4,058 records, including eight diagnostic outcomes. The contribution is an explicit, auditable annotation instrument and a case study of its construction and measurement limits; human-reference validity and downstream utility remain to be established. 

# 1 Introduction 

An agent trace already records who spoke, which tool was called, and what it returned. Those structural fields answer many useful questions directly. Procedural analysis asks an additional question: what observable function did an event serve in the task? A retail assistant message may both present product options and ask the customer to choose one; several retrieval calls may jointly realize one record-gathering action. Neither a tool-name sequence nor a one-label-per-message representation expresses both cases. We introduce Canonical Procedural Actions (CPA S) as an annotation instrument for such analyses. Each oc-currence records a procedural function, its first agent-event anchor, the agent events that realize it, and separate customer/tool/environment events cited as context. The representation is an anchor-aware multiset: it retains repeated occurrences and multiple functions at one message, while declining to infer their within-message order. Definitions use four fields—proximal goal, principal output, state change, and preconditions—to make the intended meaning and its boundaries inspectable. The fields guide annotation judgement; they do not constitute a verified semantic parser. Functional and overlapping dialogue annotation already has a substantial history (Bunt et al., 2019, 2020). Procedural representations of agent trajectories also support vocabulary induction and behavioural comparison (Oderinwale, 2026). Our contribution is the specific combination of occurrence-level procedural definitions, shared anchors, separate realization/context references, and recorded codebook decisions for tool-use traces. We examine how this instrument is constructed and what its consistency scores can establish, using a retail case study. The study contributes three inspectable artifacts and analyses:  

> *Corresponding author: sl2097@cam.ac.uk
> †dongqing.li@kellogg.ox.ac.uk
> ‡chengzheqiao@gmail.com

1arXiv:2609.24264v1 [cs.CL] 21 Sep 2026 1. An occurrence schema with explicit multiplicity and evidence-reference invariants, together with a 24-entry retail codebook and applied instructions. 2. A construction record from open induction through revision, a frozen candidate audit, and application to 244 further trajectories yielding 4,058 occurrence records. Diagnostic proposals and abstentions remain visible. 3. A retrospective audit of the original paired outputs: label support, tool/message strata, evidence-reference overlap, task-cluster uncertainty, label-coarsening controls, and native-event/endpoint-rule baselines. The final paired audit gives anchor–label overlap A = 0 .982 on 32 trajectory-disjoint traces, but this result requires qualification. The underlying tasks partly overlap development; the historical input view clips tool payloads; and both annotators are isolated LLM contexts without a human reference. Collapsing all labels improves overlap, and simple endpoint rules almost exactly reproduce the tool portion. These results prevent interpreting high agreement as evidence of correct labels, useful granularity, or an improvement over native traces. CPA makes certain analyses operational: for example, one can retrieve every message annotated as both presenting variants and requesting mutation input, then inspect its cited events. Section 5.5 demonstrates that query on the archived outputs. Whether the annotations make an analyst more accurate or faster is a separate empirical question. The present paper establishes the representation and reports its conditional repeatability; it does not report a validated failure detector or an agent-performance gain. 

# 2 Related work 

Agent trajectories as behavioural data. τ -bench treats evaluation as an interaction among a user, an agent, and domain tools, rather than as a final-answer-only exercise (Yao et al., 2025). This makes a richer empirical question possible: what did the agent actually do on its way to an outcome? Raw traces provide the evidence, but endpoint names and conversational turns are interface-level objects. CPA contributes a layer between that evidence and later behavioural analysis: a small, versioned vocabulary of observable procedural functions whose source events can still be inspected. 

Grounded action annotation. The distinction between a purposeful action and the operation through which it is carried out has a long history in activity theory (Leontiev, 1978). Here it is a pragmatic modelling device: an action is defined by its observable goal, output, state transition, and preconditions, rather than by a particular tool or phrase. This is close in spirit to stand-off annotation frameworks, which preserve a link between labels and the source material that supports them (Bird and Liberman, 2001). The relevant unit in our data is neither a token nor a conventional non-overlapping span. One message can realize several actions, so the representation must retain multiplicity at a shared anchor. 

Dialogue functions and procedural vocabularies. ISO dialogue-act annotation distinguishes communicative func-tions and supports application-specific extensions (Bunt et al., 2020). DialogBank uses functional segments that may be discontinuous or overlapping (Bunt et al., 2019). Thus multiple functions within a turn and source-linked annotation are not new in themselves. CPA applies these concerns to procedural units spanning tool calls and assistant messages, with explicit event anchors, realization/context separation, and a versioned retail codebook. This is a domain-specific design choice rather than a demonstrated advantage over ISO annotation. ProcGrep induces procedural vocabularies from coding-agent traces, including BPE-based action chunking, and studies behavioural fingerprints and procedural queries (Oderinwale, 2026). It is a close precedent for canonical trajectory representations and their analytical use. CPA focuses on defining and auditing semantically named occurrence units before such downstream analysis, including co-anchored message functions. We have not compared the two systems on a common corpus and make no performance-superiority claim. 

Codebooks, LLMs, and measurement claims. Inductive coding normally involves proposing categories, comparing cases, refining definitions, and recording decisions (Charmaz, 2006; Braun and Clarke, 2006). LLMs make large-scale structured coding practical (Dai et al., 2023; Gilardi et al., 2023), but they also make it easy to mistake a fluent label for a validated measurement. Work on LLM-assisted annotation emphasizes the need to distinguish model suggestions, human judgement, and downstream claims (Pangakis and Wolken, 2025; Schroeder et al., 2025). We therefore treat the library, prompt, and evaluator as a versioned instrument. The audit measures whether that instrument yields reproducible anchored occurrences under isolated runs; it does not replace a human-reference study. 2From action labels to later analysis. Agreement metrics must respect the annotation unit being compared (Artstein and Poesio, 2008). Our anchor-level multiplicity measures are chosen for the frozen CPA schema, rather than borrowed from a token-segmentation setting. A provenance-preserving action layer can eventually support process-mining or event-log analysis (van der Aalst, 2011; Rebmann and van der Aa, 2022). This paper stops one step earlier: it specifies an annotation layer on which such analyses could be tested. 

# 3 An auditable CPA representation 

A CPA is designed to make a trajectory claim inspectable. A reader should be able to ask: which agent event realized this action, what other agent events belong to it, and which observed events establish its meaning? The representation therefore keeps action realization and contextual evidence separate. 

A short vignette. Suppose a customer asks whether a product variant can be used to change an order. The agent retrieves the order, observes the available variants, then replies: “Blue is available; would you like me to make that change?” The retrieval tool call is one CPA, while the reply contains two: PRESENT_VARIANT_OPTIONS exposes the choice set and SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT asks the customer to authorize or specify the pending change. Both reply clauses share an event anchor. The tool result is evidence for their meaning, rather than an action in its own right. CPA is a representation that retains those distinctions without asking an annotator to infer a hidden plan. 

## 3.1 Occurrence model 

For trajectory t, let Et = ( et, 1, . . . , e t,T t ) be its ordered event sequence, let Et = {et, 1, . . . , e t,T t } be its event set, and let Gt ⊆ E t be the agent-generated events. A CPA is an occurrence record, 

ct,j = ( t, j, h t,j , at,j , xt,j , ℓ t,j , d t,j , ξ t,j ), (1) where at,j = ( a1, . . . , a m) lists the agent events that jointly realize the action and ht,j = a1 is its A CTION AN-

> CHOR

. xt,j contains the customer, tool-result, or environment events that establish the action’s goal, inputs, out-put, state transition, or outcome. The remaining fields hold a library label ℓt,j (or a candidate label), a decision 

dt,j ∈ { MATCH EXISTING , PROPOSE NEW , ABSTAIN }, and compact outcome, confidence, review, and evidence meta-data ξt,j . The frozen schema requires 

at,j ⊆ G t, ht,j = min at,j , xt,j ⊆ E t \ G t. (2) An action can have no contextual evidence IDs when the agent event itself is sufficient evidence. The record is deliberately anchor-aware rather than a partition of events. If an assistant message presents available variants and asks the customer to authorize a change, it can yield both PRESENT_VARIANT_OPTIONS and SOLICIT_MU TATION_INPUT . Formally, 

ht,j = ht,j ′̸ =⇒ ct,j = ct,j ′ . (3) The observed order is consequently partial: 

ct,j ≺obs ct,j ′ ⇐⇒ ht,j < h t,j ′ . (4) Records sharing an anchor are distinct but unordered; their row order is only a stable storage tie-break, not evidence of a clause-level temporal order. Figure 1 shows this distinction between actions and the evidence that makes them interpretable. 

## 3.2 Identity: what is the same action? 

Each library entry is defined by four observable features: 

κ(c) =  g(c), o ⋆(c), ∆s(c), p (c), (5) 3customer e1           

> “change this order to blue?”
> agent tool call e2
> retrieve order record
> tool result e3
> order and blue availability
> assistant message e4
> “Blue is available; make change?” request action event context evidence two functions
> RETRIEVE_ORDER_RECORD
> anchor e2
> PRESENT_VARIANT_OPTIONS
> anchor e4
> SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT
> anchor e4
> context context context The two e4occurrences share an anchor; no arrow orders them.

Figure 1: CPA provenance. An occurrence is anchored to the first agent event that realizes it and cites contextual evidence separately. The two right-most CPAs share an assistant-message anchor; their horizontal placement does not assert an order between clauses. where g is the proximal procedural goal, o⋆ the principal output, ∆s the state transition, and p the action-defining preconditions. For an occurrence c and entry k, the matching decision is therefore conceptually 

Match( c, k ) = 1[g(c) |= gk ∧ o⋆(c) |= o⋆k ∧ ∆s(c) |= ∆ sk ∧ p(c) |= pk] . (6) Here |= denotes an annotator’s documented judgement under the frozen entry definition; it is not an executable logical-entailment test. Endpoint, identifier channel, record source, scenario, mutation object, wording, and phase may describe an occurrence, but they do not decide its CPA identity. This is what allows one dictionary entry to remain meaningful across surface interfaces. Phase is retained only as an annotation scaffold. It is assigned after the CPA decision, has no role in Eq. 5, and is excluded from the archived observation sequence. Similarly, a policy statement can ground an action without becoming an action merely because it appears in a message. 

## 3.3 From open coding to a frozen instrument 

The construction process in Figure 2 follows two modes. In I NDUCE mode, annotators work without a fixed library and either propose a supported action name or abstain. Candidate language is then normalized and subjected to recorded merge, split, and reject decisions. In A PPLY mode, the annotator works against a supplied library: it must use an exact entry when the four-field definition fits, propose a new type only when no definition fits, and abstain when the trace does not support a confident decision. APPLY results never alter a frozen library silently. A freeze is a semantic decision supported by fresh application, not a count threshold. We freeze only when a fresh APPLY-open batch yields no surviving new function after review, no recurring abstention or merge/split defect, and no failure of the evidence or artifact checks. Appendix B states the full criteria and the R6 evidence for each. 

## 3.4 Auditing the frozen instrument 

Before a corpus enters analysis, deterministic QA validates every referenced ID, anchor, action-event list, context list, decision, label, and occurrence identifier; it also checks anchor order, repeated-label preservation, and the absence of sealed evaluation traces. These checks establish that the data obey the representation. The separate audit asks whether isolated annotation runs reproduce the representation on fresh trajectories. For runs r, s , let n(r) 

> th

be the number of occurrences at trace–anchor pair (t, h ). Anchored-occurrence multiplicity is 

Fmult = 2 P 

> t,h

min {n(r) 

> th

, n (s) 

> th

}

P 

> t,h

n(r) 

> th

+ P 

> t,h

n(s)

> th

. (7) 4R1: open induction 

32 hash-selected traces 4 isolated contexts 

> 973 records; 98 candidate strings

Recorded consolidation 

normalize candidate language merge / split / reject 

> four-field definitions

R2–R5 APPLY-open 

4 fresh 32-trace batches 2 isolated contexts each 

> proposals/abstentions reviewed

Frozen v0.5 candidate 

library + prompt + schema + evaluator 

> 24 canonical entries

R6 fresh freeze audit 

32 untouched traces; 990 records  

> 0 new; 0 abstain;
> Fmult =.986 ;A=.982

Freeze v1.0 

immutable 24-entry library 

> eligibility criteria all met

library may change between R2 and R5: construction evidence, not IID evaluation 

Production APPLY 

244 non-sealed trajectories 

> 4,058 CPA records

QA and accounting 

4,050 match; 5 abstain; 3 diagnostics 

> all schema/provenance checks pass

Evaluation set 

20 sealed trajectories 

> unopened; excluded

not sampled, annotated, or used to revise v1.0 

Figure 2: How the τ 3-Retail library was built. R1 is open induction and R2–R5 are APPLY-open development rounds, separated by recorded semantic decisions. R6 evaluates the frozen candidate; the 20 sealed evaluation traces were not opened or used to revise v1.0. For label k, let n(r)

thk be its count at (t, h ) and define 

ak = X

t,h 

min {n(r)

thk , n (s)

thk }, (8) 

pk = X

t,h 

 n(r)

thk − n(s)

thk 



+, qk = X

t,h 

 n(s)

thk − n(r)

thk 



+, (9) 

A(k) = 2ak

2ak + pk + qk

, An(k) = ak + pk + qk. (10) Writing a = P

k ak, p = P

k pk, and q = P

k qk, the reported aggregate anchor–label agreement is 

A = 2a

2a + p + q . (11) 

Fmult measures whether the runs place the same number of occurrences at an anchor; A(k) adds label identity. Together, they capture the two sources of disagreement introduced by same-message CPAs: how many actions the runs find and which functions they assign. These are symmetric overlap measures, not accuracy against a reference and not chance-corrected reliability coefficients. Shared omissions and shared misinterpretations do not reduce them. They also do not compare the semantic sufficiency of cited evidence. We report the unweighted mean of A(k) only over labels observed in at least one run, with an unobserved label shown as undefined rather than as perfect agreement. 

# 4 Study design 

The empirical study has three deliberately separate stages: constructing a library, testing whether a frozen candidate can be reapplied on fresh data, and using the frozen version to create a corpus. Keeping these stages separate is important. Discovery rounds are allowed to change a definition; an evaluation round is useful precisely because its library, prompt, schema, and batch have already been fixed. 54.1 Protocol summary 

The operational sequence is: (1) select R1 and induce provisional actions in isolated contexts; (2) consolidate candidates into a versioned library with recorded decisions; (3) apply and revise through fresh R2–R5 batches; (4) fix a freeze candidate, instructions, schema, evaluator specification, and new batch before annotation; (5) run R6 and review the declared eligibility criteria; and (6) freeze v1.0 and apply it to the remaining production traces, retaining diagnostics. Porting this procedure to another domain requires new construction and validation; it does not imply portability of the retail labels themselves. 

## 4.2 Data and sampling 

We work with the retail customer-service trajectories in τ 3-Retail (Yao et al., 2025; Sierra Research, 2026). We retain the historical archive’s τ 3-Retail designation; the exact upstream benchmark revision and the configuration of the agent that generated these trajectories have not been re-established from the analysis snapshot. The results concern the archived trajectories, not a newly run benchmark evaluation. A trajectory contains customer turns, agent messages, agent tool calls, and tool or environment results. CPA annotates only the agent’s observable behaviour, while retaining the other events when they are needed to establish an occurrence’s interpretation. Twenty benchmark trajectories form a sealed evaluation set; they were neither opened nor used in any library decision reported here. The recorded split contains 456 trajectories: 20 reserved traces and 436 non-sealed traces. A retrospective check of the actual ID lists verifies that the six 32-trace construction/audit batches are pairwise disjoint (192 traces), and that production contains the remaining 244. This is trajectory separation, not task separation: the 32 R6 trajectories cover 26 task IDs, of which 16 also occur in R1–R5 through different trials. The first discovery sample (R1) consists of 32 traces selected by a recorded hash procedure. Four isolated annotation contexts received two disjoint 16-trace halves: A/B worked on one half and C/D on the other. R1 produced 973 occurrence records: 965 provisional proposals and eight abstentions. Its 98 candidate label strings and 132 annotator-supplied definitions were inputs to consolidation, not an evaluation score. We normalized candidate language and recorded every merge, split, and rejection before issuing the next library version. The consolidation report proposed 29 canonical groups; the subsequent v0.1 library admitted 19 entries. The historical R1 manifest lists a sampling pool of 416; its relationship to the later 436-trace non-sealed partition has not been re-established here. We preserve the original field and base the reported split accounting on the verified trace-ID lists. 

## 4.3 Development and the fresh audit 

R2–R5 are four further APPLY-open development rounds. Each uses a fresh 32-trajectory batch and two isolated annotation contexts. A proposed label, abstention, or boundary observation in these rounds could trigger a documented definition decision; these rounds therefore inform construction rather than estimate final-system performance. By the end of R5, review had produced a 24-entry candidate library, v0.5. The complete development ledger, including all proposal, abstention, and agreement counts, is provided in Appendix C. The applied versions were v0.1, v0.2, v0.3.1, and v0.4, respectively. R6 is different. Before annotation, we fixed the v0.5 library, the applied prompt, occurrence schema, evaluator, and a 32-trajectory batch not used in development. Two isolated contexts, C1 and C2, then applied that same package without cross-visibility. The audit manifest declares a Claude Code subagent, claude-opus-5 , and a one-million-token context window; these are archived configuration declarations, not independently verified service snapshots. Temperature and top-p were not pinned. The freeze decision was made only after their outputs had been parsed, compared, and checked against the criteria in Appendix B. This design asks a focused question: given the same frozen instrument, do fresh runs recover the same anchor-level action multiset? The historical input renderer retained assistant and customer text but clipped tool arguments and tool-result strings to 110 characters. Thus the audit measures repeatability from those rendered views, not from complete tool payloads. Valid evidence references alone cannot establish that the visible content was sufficient for an interpretation. 

## 4.4 Freeze and production application 

We promoted the candidate to v1.0 only if the R6 batch contained no surviving new procedural function after review, no recurring unresolved abstention or merge/split defect, and no action/context-reference, provenance, artifact-integrity, or deterministic-QA failure. These are semantic and representational conditions, rather than a universal threshold on a 6single agreement number. The predeclared mechanical checks validate parsing, vocabulary, event references, anchors, action/context separation, multiplicity preservation, ordering, and sealed-set exclusion. After the R6 decision, we applied v1.0 to 244 non-sealed trajectories. The production pass is an application of the frozen library: diagnostic proposals and abstentions are retained as records for a later version, rather than silently modifying v1.0. The complete artifact map, reconstruction checks, and annotation-configuration record are in Appendix F. 

## 4.5 Retrospective validation analyses 

After the original freeze, we reparse the four raw R6 response files, verify their equality to the archived 990 normalized records, and recompute all agreement counts. The additional analyses are exploratory; they were not original freeze criteria. We stratify by source anchor type, report all 24 labels with support, and construct a 95% percentile interval by resampling the 26 task clusters 5,000 times (seed 20260919), retaining both contexts and all observed trials within each sampled task. The interval describes variation over this empirical task sample, not uncertainty over model runs or human correctness. We also merge the existing labels into eight explicit functional families, and into a single action category, preserving every occurrence and anchor. For a structural baseline, each native agent event after the initial greeting contributes one occurrence. Two simple labeling baselines map tool names to CPA entries, with either one occurrence per call or consecutive same-endpoint retrievals grouped at their first call; intervening customer and tool results do not break a group, but an assistant message or different tool does. No argument, result, or message content is interpreted. These baselines are compared separately to C1 and C2 as LLM outputs, not as gold labels. Appendix E gives the mappings, results, and outstanding human and downstream evaluation designs. We additionally compare exact context-event reference sets within each trace–anchor–label key, preserving occur-rence multiplicity. Context order is ignored; the cited IDs must otherwise agree. A separate check also requires the archived action-span endpoint to agree. These are stricter structural comparisons, not tests of whether different evidence selections are semantically equivalent or sufficient. 

# 5 Results 

The study produces both a repeatability result for the frozen annotation protocol and a provenance-linked retail action corpus. We report them in that order: the first establishes how the instrument behaved on new data, and the second describes what its fixed version yielded at scale. 

## 5.1 Paired outputs show high conditional overlap 

On R6, C1 returned 499 occurrences and C2 returned 491, for 990 records in total. Every record was a M ATCH EXISTING 

decision: neither isolated context proposed a new CPA or abstained. The two runs achieved anchored-occurrence multiplicity Fmult = 0 .986 . Of 354 anchors shared by the two contexts, 340 carried exactly the same number of occurrences, and no anchor appeared in only one context. At the level of anchor–label multisets, aggregate agreement was A = 0 .982 (a = 486 , p = 13 , q = 5 ). These figures are meaningful because the representation permits several occurrences at one assistant-message anchor. An ordinary one-label-per-turn comparison would erase exactly the distinction CPA is intended to preserve. Here, Fmult measures overlap in the number of anchored occurrences, while A asks whether the runs assigned the same functions. The R6 result therefore supports the claim that the fixed v0.5 instrument behaved consistently on its fresh batch. The full R2–R6 development history and R6 comparison ledger are reported in Appendix C. 

## 5.2 Aggregate agreement hides uneven support and local disagreement 

The retrospective task-cluster interval for aggregate A is [0 .971 , 0.991] . The macro-average over the 23 observed labels is 0.974; the remaining label, SEQUENCE_MUTATION_STEPS , is unobserved and has no estimable R6 agreement. Three other labels have only one occurrence per context, and DECLARE_INFORMATION_UNAVAILABLE has two. Perfect overlap for these entries is weak evidence about their stability. The weakest observed entry is BIND_PARAMETER_FROM_RECORD : C1 emits 27 occurrences and C2 emits 22, with 20 matched, giving A(k) = 40 /49 = 0 .816 . Its nine unmatched occurrences account for half of all 18 unmatched 7records. DECLINE_OUT_OF_SCOPE_REQUEST and SURVEY_ORDER_PORTFOLIO score 0.833 and 0.889, respectively. All disagreements occur at assistant-message anchors: the 185 tool-anchored occurrences in each context agree exactly, whereas the 314/306 message occurrences yield A = 0 .971 . Anchor modality is observable; it is not itself a validated measure of semantic difficulty. Appendix E gives all label counts and the residual multisets at the 16 disputed anchors. 

## 5.3 Label overlap does not ensure identical evidence references 

Requiring the same context-event ID set as well as the same trace, anchor, and label reduces the matched count from 486 to 395. The resulting symmetric overlap is Actx = 2 × 395 /(499 + 491) = 0 .798 . Requiring the archived action-span endpoint alone leaves the original 486 matches unchanged; requiring both span endpoint and context set yields 395 matches. Thus the headline A = 0 .982 leaves substantial variation in context-reference selection unmeasured. Different reference sets can be equally sufficient, while identical sets can both be insufficient. This result is neither a semantic error rate nor a complete-record accuracy score: confidence, phase, outcomes, and other metadata are not part of this comparison. It identifies evidence selection as a distinct validation target, especially given the clipped tool payloads. 

## 5.4 Coarsening and endpoint rules delimit the current evidence 

Mapping the 24 labels into eight functional families raises A from 0.982 to 0.986. Collapsing every label to one category produces the same 0.986 score, despite eliminating every label distinction. This is a controlled remapping of existing outputs, not a new annotation experiment. It demonstrates why agreement cannot select the vocabulary’s granularity. Both R6 contexts also reported that SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT covered distinct-looking value requests, choices, ratifications, and execution authorizations, despite agreeing on all 72 occurrences per context. A finer semantic taxonomy has not yet been independently annotated or tested for utility. The grouped endpoint-rule baseline matches all 185 tool-anchored occurrences in each context and emits one additional occurrence; its overlap restricted to tool anchors is 0.997. Against each complete annotation, those same 185 matches cover only 37.1%/37.7% of C1/C2 occurrences. Thus much of the tool portion is cheaply recoverable, while the additional CPA labels describe work in assistant messages. Native-event multiplicity and full baseline results appear in Table 8. These are reconstruction comparisons to LLM annotations; lower baseline overlap does not demonstrate that CPA improves failure diagnosis or any other downstream task. 

## 5.5 A reproducible query over co-anchored message actions 

To make the representation’s use concrete, we query the archived R6 outputs for anchors carrying both PRESENT_VA RIANT_OPTIONS and SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT . Each context returns the same 6 anchors in 6 trajectories. This query needs two functions at a shared anchor; a single endpoint label does not encode that conjunction. The query is a descriptive demonstration on LLM outputs, not an evaluated improvement over a content-based rule or raw-trace search. For example, at T103-3:36 , the assistant reports an address update, lists three red luggage variants, and asks the customer to choose a variant and a payment method. Both contexts record an acknowledgement, variant presentation, and mutation-input solicitation at that anchor. However, they cite different context events for the solicitation: C1 cites events 7 and 31, whereas C2 cites 31 and 35. Their anchor–label agreement for this message is perfect despite this evidence-reference difference. Checking whether the underlying claims and cited evidence are sufficient still requires inspection of the source payloads. Across all R6 outputs, C1 and C2 assign multiple occurrences to 70 and 67 assistant-message anchors, respectively, out of 354 occupied anchors per context. These are counts of annotated multiplicity, not independently verified counts of real actions. The query script emits the matching trace/event IDs and checks the equality of the returned anchor sets. 

## 5.6 Frozen application yields 4,058 archived records 

The v1.0 application completed all 244 expected non-sealed trajectories and created 4,058 CPA records. Its decision accounting was 

bpmatch = 4050 4058 = 0 .9980 , bpdiagnostic = 5 + 3 4058 = 0 .0020 , (12) 8where the diagnostic outcomes comprise five A BSTAIN records and three P ROPOSE NEW records. The three proposals were differently worded out-of-domain question types. They remain visible diagnostics for a later version, preserving the meaning of a frozen v1.0 corpus. Every one of the 24 dictionary entries occurs in production. A trajectory contains 16.63 records on average (range 6–33), and repeated labels are preserved as distinct occurrences rather than deduplicated. All output records parsed; all referenced evidence IDs were valid; empty context lists were accepted where the schema allowed them; and all remaining deterministic provenance and ordering checks passed. The detailed accounting and QA interpretation are in Appendix C. 

## 5.7 CPA exposes a broad, uneven repertoire of retail procedures 

Figure 3 makes the resulting action layer tangible. The highest-frequency functions trace a recognizable retail-service loop: obtain identity credentials, resolve a customer and request referent, retrieve records, obtain remaining mutation input, execute an authorized change, and acknowledge the result. At the same time, the corpus retains less common but meaningful branches, including sequencing required changes (12 occurrences) and declaring that information is unavailable (13 occurrences). Those cases would be easy to lose in a representation based only on endpoint names or final task status. The distribution is descriptive rather than a leaderboard of labels. Its value is that analysts can now ask distributional or process questions over procedural functions while returning to the source event IDs behind any count. The operational definitions and exact frequency of every entry appear in Appendix D. 

# 6 Discussion 

## 6.1 An action layer between traces and behavioural analysis 

Raw trajectories preserve fine-grained evidence but leave the procedural role of an event implicit. CPA supplies a middle layer: it turns observable functions into queryable occurrences without discarding the messages, tool calls, and results that support them. That combination is intended to support three kinds of future analysis. It permits comparisons across interfaces that serve the same procedural function, preserves repeated actions that a set-valued summary would lose, and exposes an anchor-respecting partial order for flow or process analyses. In each case, an analyst can return from a canonical label to its source evidence. The design also makes a practical modelling choice explicit. When a customer response can serve as a value, a choice, a ratification, or authorization for a pending change, the trace often lacks an observable state that separates those latent distinctions. The v1 library therefore uses SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT as an observation-level merge. This is a deliberate boundary of the instrument, recorded in the dictionary and tested as a dedicated R6 watch item, rather than a claim that those underlying activities are psychologically identical. Consequently, this label cannot by itself establish that explicit authorization was obtained. Likewise, a record named EXECUTE_AUTHORIZED_MUTATION is an annotation decision, not a verified policy-compliance judgement. Similar choices can be revised transparently in a later version because the current occurrences retain their provenance. 

## 6.2 Scope and next validation 

The empirical result is conditional repeatability of an annotation protocol for the observed τ 3-Retail trajectories. R6 compares two isolated LLM contexts, not a human-reference study, so its agreement measures establish protocol consistency rather than semantic ground truth. Shared omissions, common mislabeling, and insufficient evidence can all survive perfect agreement. The context-reference overlap of 0.798 , low per-label scores, and sparse support reported here make those risks specific. The 110-character tool-payload rendering limit further prevents equating valid provenance with complete evidence. Production used one annotation stream with a documented model-configuration change: s03–s04 used the earlier configuration, and the other shards used the later one. Temperature and top-p were not pinned in either production or R6; a declared model-family string is not a verified deployment snapshot. The 24-entry library was constructed for this retail environment. The three production proposal diagnostics and five abstentions illustrate why its boundaries should remain visible when the corpus is reused. 9Production occurrences per frozen CPA 

Each bar is a count of occurrence records; labels are sorted by frequency.      

> occurrence records 0100 200 300 400 500

SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT 499 

REQUEST_IDENTITY_CREDENTIAL 399 

EXECUTE_AUTHORIZED_MUTATION 368 

RETRIEVE_ORDER_RECORD 293 

RESOLVE_REQUEST_REFERENT 285 

RESOLVE_CUSTOMER_IDENTITY 268 

ACKNOWLEDGE_MUTATION_COMMIT 267 

COMPUTE_SETTLEMENT_AMOUNT 248 

RETRIEVE_ACCOUNT_PROFILE 241 

RETRIEVE_PRODUCT_VARIANT_SET 184 

BIND_PARAMETER_FROM_RECORD 175 

SCREEN_ROUTE_ADMISSIBILITY 152 

ANSWER_CUSTOMER_QUERY 129 

SELECT_VARIANT_MEETING_CONSTRAINTS 119 

PRESENT_VARIANT_OPTIONS 97 

SCREEN_CANDIDATE_SATISFACTION 81 

SURVEY_ORDER_PORTFOLIO 75 

OFFER_ALTERNATIVE_COURSES 60 

DECLINE_OUT_OF_SCOPE_REQUEST 38 

RETRIEVE_PRODUCT_CATALOG_INDEX 16 

TRANSFER_TO_HUMAN_AGENT 16 

ELICIT_GOAL_SELECTION 15 

DECLARE_INFORMATION_UNAVAILABLE 13 

SEQUENCE_MUTATION_STEPS 12  

> Total: 4,050 M ATCH EXISTING records across 244 trajectories. Five abstentions and three proposed-label diagnostics are excluded; counts are descriptive.

Figure 3: Production frequency of every frozen CPA. Bars sum to the 4,050 M ATCH EXISTING records across 244 τ 3-Retail trajectories; five abstentions and three proposed-label diagnostics are excluded. The figure reveals the procedural repertoire exercised by the corpus; it is not a label-quality ranking. 10 The outstanding validation has four parts. First, two humans should annotate complete traces independently before seeing model outputs, with a third adjudicator separating missed actions, wrong labels, multiplicity errors, and insufficient evidence. Second, an independently applied finer taxonomy must test whether splitting mutation-input requests improves distinctions relevant to a task, rather than merely changing agreement. Third, a blinded failure diagnosis study must compare native traces, deterministic labels, and CPA under the same information and time budgets. Fourth, repeated runs with recorded configurations and a task-disjoint second domain must distinguish within-model repeatability from between-model robustness and transfer. Appendix E specifies these proposed studies; none is reported as a completed result. The historical 20-trace reserve was excluded from this study; a future evaluation must verify its then-current exposure status before calling it untouched. Any sequence model built on CPA should respect Eq. 4: same-message occurrences are co-anchored observations, not evidence of a total within-message order. 

# 7 Conclusion 

Canonical Procedural Actions turn τ 3-Retail traces into an auditable action layer whose labels remain connected to their event-level evidence. The paper contributes the representation, construction and freeze protocol, conditional repeatability evaluation, applied prompt summary, criteria, and a 24-entry dictionary applied to 4,058 occurrence records. It offers a concrete foundation for studying how tool-use agents act—with the evidence needed to question, reproduce, or refine that measurement in future work. 

# AI-use statement 

LLM contexts generated the corpus annotations and audits described in this paper; these are not human annotations. Generative AI also assisted manuscript drafting, editing, and retrospective analysis code. No AI output is counted as an independent human validation result. 

# References 

Ron Artstein and Massimo Poesio. Survey article: Inter-coder agreement for computational linguistics. Computational Linguistics , 34(4):555–596, 2008. doi: 10.1162/coli.07-034-R2. Steven Bird and Mark Liberman. A formal framework for linguistic annotation. Speech Communication , 33(1–2): 23–60, 2001. doi: 10.1016/S0167-6393(00)00068-6. Virginia Braun and Victoria Clarke. Using thematic analysis in psychology. Qualitative Research in Psychology , 3(2): 77–101, 2006. doi: 10.1191/1478088706qp063oa. Harry Bunt, Volha Petukhova, Andrei Malchanau, Alex Fang, and Kars Wijnhoven. The DialogBank: Dialogues with interoperable annotations. Language Resources and Evaluation , 53:213–249, 2019. doi: 10.1007/s10579-018-943 6-9. Harry Bunt, Volha Petukhova, Emer Gilmartin, Catherine Pelachaud, Alex Fang, Simon Keizer, and Laurent Prévot. The ISO standard for dialogue act annotation, second edition. In Proceedings of the Twelfth Language Resources and Evaluation Conference , pages 549–558. European Language Resources Association, 2020. URL https: //aclanthology.org/2020.lrec-1.69/ .Kathy Charmaz. Constructing Grounded Theory: A Practical Guide Through Qualitative Analysis . Sage, 2006. Shih-Chieh Dai, Aiping Xiong, and Lun-Wei Ku. LLM-in-the-loop: Leveraging large language model for thematic analysis. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023 , pages 9993–10001, 2023. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.findings-emnlp.669. Fabrizio Gilardi, Meysam Alizadeh, and Maël Kubli. ChatGPT outperforms crowd-workers for text-annotation tasks. 

Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , 120(30):e2305016120, 2023. doi: 10.1073/pnas.2305016120. Alexei N. Leontiev. Activity, Consciousness, and Personality . Prentice-Hall, 1978. 11 Hamidah Oderinwale. Agent trajectories as programs: Fingerprinting and programming coding-agent behavior, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.16988v1 . arXiv:2606.16988, version 1. Nicholas Pangakis and Samuel Wolken. Keeping humans in the loop: Human-centered automated annotation with generative AI. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media , volume 19, pages 1471–1492, 2025. doi: 10.1609/icwsm.v19i1.35883. Adrian Rebmann and Han van der Aa. Enabling semantics-aware process mining through the automatic annotation of event logs. Information Systems , 110:102111, 2022. doi: 10.1016/j.is.2022.102111. Hope Schroeder, Deb Roy, and Jad Kabbara. Just put a human in the loop? investigating LLM-assisted annotation for subjective tasks. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025 , pages 25771–25795, 2025. doi: 10.18653/v1/2025.findings-acl.1323. Sierra Research. τ 3-bench 1.0.0: Voice, knowledge, task quality. Software release notes, 2026. URL https: //github.com/sierra-research/tau2-bench/releases . Accessed September 20, 2026; background citation, not the verified revision of the study archive. Wil M. P. van der Aalst. Process Mining: Discovery, Conformance and Enhancement of Business Processes . Springer, 2011. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-19345-3. Shunyu Yao, Noah Shinn, Pedram Razavi, and Karthik Narasimhan. τ -bench: A benchmark for tool-agent-user interaction in real-world domains. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2025. 12 A Applied annotation prompt and record format 

This appendix gives a faithful, formatting-normalized summary of the instructions applied in the final τ 3-Retail process. It is included so that the operational definition is inspectable in the paper. The accompanying source bundle contains the frozen codebook, archived schema, and freeze manifest (Appendix F). The text below is an application protocol ,not a claim that a prompt alone validates labels. 

## A.1 Core instruction 

You are annotating retail customer-service agent trajectories. Segment agent behaviour into Canonical Procedural Actions (CPAs). The library is FROZEN: do not edit entries, rename them, or stretch a definition merely to make an event fit. A CPA is a goal-directed action above an individual operation and below the whole task. Decide CPA identity only from: (1) proximal procedural goal (2) principal output (3) procedural state transition (4) action-defining preconditions These NEVER make different CPAs: tool endpoint, identifier channel, record source, scenario, mutation object, wording, or phase. Record only AGENT behaviour. Customer turns and tool results may be context evidence, but are never action events. The greeting is not an action. ACTION_ANCHOR: first AGENT event realizing the CPA. ACTION_EVENT_IDS: all AGENT events jointly realizing it. CONTEXT_EVENT_IDS: customer/tool/environment events establishing the goal, input, output, state change, or outcome. Empty context is permitted. One agent message frequently realizes several CPAs. Record one occurrence per realized function. Do not collapse them; do not invent them. A clause is a separate occurrence only when it has its own principal output or state change. For every occurrence choose exactly one: MATCH_EXISTING: a supplied library definition fits; use its exact label. PROPOSE_NEW: the occurrence is a genuine action and no definition fits. ABSTAIN: the occurrence/action type cannot be determined confidently. Match definitions, never label wording. Do not propose a new CPA because of a different tool, scenario, mutation type, input channel, or wording. Do not consult another annotator’s output. Do not modify the library. 

The prompt places phase after CPA selection. It permits one of P LAN , R ETRIEVE , I NSPECT , E XTRACT , V ERIFY ,WRITE , S YNTHESIZE , R EPAIR , or H ANDOFF , but explicitly says that phase must not influence the identity decision. Final production sequences do not contain phase. The applied prompt does not list an U NRESOLVED phase; we do not add one retroactively. Its three confidence fields refer to action boundaries, the auxiliary phase, and CPA type, respectively, on a 0.00–1.00 scale with two decimals. These are annotator self-reports, not calibrated probabilities or additional quality measurements. 

## A.2 Required response layout 

The source instruction asked for one pipe-delimited row per occurrence in trace and anchor order, followed by definitions only for proposed labels and a short library-observation section. The core row was: 

TRACE | ANCHOR-LASTACTIONEVENT | CONTEXT_IDS | LABEL | PHASE | DECISION | OUTCOME | BOUNDARY_CONF | PHASE_CONF | TYPE_CONF | REVIEW | REVIEW_REASON 

Rows that share an anchor use a stable storage tie-break only; their relative row order carries no within-message temporal interpretation. For a M ATCH EXISTING row, LABEL must be an exact frozen-library label. For a P ROPOSE NEW row, it is an uppercase-snake-case candidate; the required definition supplies goal, inputs, output, state transition, preconditions, inclusion/exclusion criteria, positive occurrences, nearest library entry, and the four-field reason it does not match. 13 SECTION 3 allows only TOO_BROAD and SHOULD_MERGE observations (or NONE ); it is a route for codebook review, not an edit channel. The raw row’s first–last interval is normalized into the frozen v1 occurrence schema. Its first agent event becomes ACTION ANCHOR ; all ordered agent events in the interval become A CTION EVENT IDS ; and interleaved customer/-tool/environment events become C ONTEXT EVENT IDS . This normalization is why a tool result can support an action without becoming part of its action-event list. It preserves a same-message multi-CPA occurrence as separate records instead of turning it into a single span label. 

## A.3 Worked schematic example 

> Customer: "Can I change this order to blue?" Agent tool: retrieve order record Tool result: order and available variants Agent: "Blue is available. Would you like me to make that change?" RETRIEVE_ORDER_RECORD anchor=tool call, context=tool result PRESENT_VARIANT_OPTIONS anchor=agent message, context=tool result SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT anchor=same agent message, context=customer turn

The final two rows share an anchor but have different outputs: exposing the option space versus obtaining the customer’s authorization/input. Their order within the message is not recorded as an observation. This is schematic only; real annotations must use source event IDs and the exact frozen library definition. 

# B Actual QA, promotion, and freeze criteria 

This appendix reports the criteria actually used for the frozen v1.0 corpus. They should not be confused with a generic or preregistered accuracy threshold. In particular, support counts and A(k) are descriptive evidence; neither can by itself admit a label or establish semantic truth. 

## B.1 Hard per-output mechanical checks 

Every production record must satisfy the record contract before it enters the corpus. Table 1 lists the deterministic checks. A failed record is not silently repaired by changing its semantic label; it must be rejected, re-annotated, or recorded as an explicit diagnostic according to the versioned process. Table 1: Mechanical QA criteria for a frozen CPA output. Check Deterministic condition Purpose Parse and vocabulary Every output parses; decision and phase values belong to their controlled vocabu-laries; each M ATCH EXISTING label is in v1.0. Prevent unreadable or out-of-library records. Occurrence identity Occurrence IDs are unique; repeated labels remain separate occurrences; anchors are nondecreasing in trace order. Preserve multiset identity rather than collapse repeti-tions. Action provenance ACTION ANCHOR exists, is an agent event, and is the first A CTION EVENT ID; all action IDs are agent-only and ordered. Enforce the anchor-aware ac-tion contract. Context provenance Every cited context ID exists in the trace; an empty context is accepted when valid. Keep observable evidence in-spectable without requiring an artificial context event. Schema separation Action and context fields are present under the frozen schema; no phase is emitted into the archived observation sequence. Prevent unlicensed semantic fields from entering down-stream data. 14 Check Deterministic condition Purpose Evaluation separation No sealed evaluation trace is present in pro-duction. Preserve the declared hold-out boundary. All of these checks pass for the 4,058 production records. This outcome means the records conform to the specified representation. It does not mean that a model’s proposed label is a human-validated truth. 

## B.2 Candidate and definition decisions 

An APPLY-open candidate is actionable only when no current library definition fits its four identity fields. Candidate spelling is normalized, but string similarity is never an automatic semantic decision. A recorded review can merge synonyms, split an over-broad definition, reject an unsupported candidate, or retain an observation-level merge when the discriminating state is not observable. A candidate found after a freeze remains a diagnostic for a subsequent version; it cannot alter the frozen corpus retroactively. The freeze process rejects a proposed universal admission equation such as “occurrence count ≥ N and trajectory count ≥ R.” Counts across independent samples and contexts are retained as support information, including for rare labels, but definition stability and reviewed semantic distinctness are the relevant conditions. Likewise, Fmult and A(k)

in Section 3 diagnose repeatability at an anchor; they do not replace merge/split review. 

## B.3 v1 freeze decision 

Table 2 gives the actual v0.5-to-v1 eligibility decision on the R6 fresh 32-trace audit. The audit was run with frozen library, prompt, schema, evaluator, and batch artifacts. The final v1.0 step is a versioned freeze of that eligible library, not a new annotation experiment. Table 2: Freeze criteria and evidence from the final audit. Criterion Verdict Evidence No recurrent surviving P ROPOSE -NEW function Pass Zero proposals across 990 occurrences, follow-ing a prior round with zero proposals; therefore none survives semantic review. No repeated A BSTAIN / ambiguity pattern Pass Zero abstentions in the entire R6 batch. No reproducible merge/split defect Pass No defect reproduced by both isolated contexts under the documented defect rule. A single-context DECLINE_OUT_OF_SCOPE_REQUEST 

versus SCREEN_ROUTE_ADMISSIBILITY ob-servation remains a watch item. No definition-level contradiction Pass No invalid label, phase, schema, or reference; reported breadth was licensed by the relevant definitions. Stable observation-level merge Pass SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT : 144 occurrences across the paired outputs over all 32 traces, 

A(k) = 1 .000 , identical 70 shared anchors with exact count agreement. Mechanical evidence coverage Pass Every record cites context and every cited ID exists. This does not test semantic sufficiency or completeness of the rendered tool payload. Frozen artifacts unchanged Pass Library, prompt, schema, evaluator, and batch manifest hashes match the pre-audit record. 15 The resulting audit metrics— Fmult = 0 .986 and aggregate A = 0 .982 —are reported because they make the degree of contextual reproducibility visible. They are not threshold values that can turn a semantically defective codebook into a valid one. The historical pass for the mutation-input merge is conditional on the supplied definition. Both contexts reported its breadth in their library observations. Those observations remain concerns about granularity even though no change was required by the historical freeze rule. 

# C Development and QA detail 

This appendix retains the construction ledger and mechanical accounting behind the main-paper results. R2–R5 are development rounds: library versions could change after recorded review, so their values describe the path to a stable instrument rather than a performance trajectory. R6 is the only fresh, fixed-instrument evaluation in this table. 

## C.1 Round-by-round construction record                                               

> Table 3: Discovery, development, and fresh-audit record. Proposal counts are occurrences; parenthetical values give the number of distinct proposed labels when applicable. Round Role Traces / contexts Records PROPOSE NEW / A BSTAIN Fmult A
> R1 Open induction 32 / 4 isolated 973 965 /8(98 candidate strings) ––R2 APPLY-open develop-ment 32 / 2 isolated 992 24 / 0 (8 labels) .964 .950 R3 APPLY-open develop-ment 32 / 2 isolated 1,125 7 / 3 (4 labels) .964 .946 R4 APPLY-open develop-ment 32 / 2 isolated 1,039 5 / 2 (3 labels) .964 .949 R5 APPLY-open develop-ment 32 / 2 isolated 1,076 0 / 1 .974 .965 R6 Fresh v0.5 audit 32 / 2 isolated 990 0 / 0 .986 .982

R1’s 98 candidate strings came with 132 annotator-supplied label definitions. The consolidation record normalized these proposals and recorded their merge, split, retention, or rejection before any subsequent library version was issued. The 24-entry v0.5 candidate used in R6 was already fixed before the new batch was opened. Thus the improvement visible in the ledger should be read as evidence of construction and review, whereas R6 tests whether the resulting instrument reproduces on fresh trajectories. 

## C.2 R6 comparison and freeze evidence 

The R6 outputs used the same fixed library, prompt, schema, evaluator, and batch manifest. C1 produced 499 records and C2 produced 491. Every row parsed, all decisions were M ATCH EXISTING , all label and phase values were valid, and all referenced evidence IDs existed in the corresponding trace. Table 4 exposes the anchor-level quantities behind the two main agreement statistics. The full semantic and mechanical freeze criteria, including the retained watch item, are in Appendix B. 

## C.3 Production accounting and deterministic QA 

The production application is a frozen-v1.0 pass over the 244 non-sealed trajectories. Figure 5 separates its 4,050 frozen-library matches from five abstentions and three proposed-label diagnostics. The latter remain in the record precisely so that a subsequent version can reconsider them without rewriting v1.0. 16 Open decisions per paired batch 

> 010 20 24

R2 R3 R4 R5 R6  

> occurrences PROPOSE NEW ABSTAIN

## Anchor-level reproducibility 

> .940 .960 .980 1.000

R2 R3 R4 R5 R6  

> score
> Fmult A
> freeze audit

Figure 4: Development record and fresh-audit result. Each APPLY-open round uses a fresh 32-trace batch, but the library changes between R2 and R5. The R6 point is the fixed-library audit: zero proposals, zero abstentions, 

Fmult = .986 , and A = .982 .Table 4: Detailed evidence from the fixed R6 audit. 

Quantity Value Frozen inputs v0.5 library, prompt, schema, evaluator, and batch manifest C1 / C2 output records 499 / 491 Decision outcomes 990 M ATCH EXISTING ; 0 P ROPOSE NEW ; 0 A BSTAIN 

Shared anchors / unique-to-one-context anchors 354 / 0 Shared anchors with exact occurrence count 340 Matched anchored multiplicities 488; Fmult = .986 

Anchor–label multiset counts a = 486 , p = 13 , q = 5 ; A = .982 

Evidence and artifact checks Valid-ID and evidence-completeness rates 1.0; frozen artifact hashes match 

# D Frozen v1.0 CPA dictionary 

This is the complete 24-entry frozen v1.0 library used in production. The table preserves each entry’s operational definition and gives its M ATCH EXISTING -record frequency; its counts sum to 4,050, excluding five abstentions and three proposed-label diagnostics. They are descriptive rather than label-quality scores. The accompanying source bundle provides the machine-readable entry definitions, including inclusion/exclusion criteria and versioned provenance (Appendix F). Table 6: Frozen τ 3-Retail CPA dictionary and M ATCH EXISTING -record counts. Label Operational definition n

ACKNOWLEDGE_MUTATION_COMMIT Report a committed mutation and its consequences, clos-ing the request thread. Requires a submitted mutation with an observed result; it is not a pre-commit proposal or bare courtesy. 267 

ANSWER_CUSTOMER_QUERY Answer an explicit customer question with a value read from a retrieved record or derived from one non-monetarily. 129 17 Label Operational definition n

BIND_PARAMETER_FROM_RECORD Fill a required argument from an already retrieved record instead of asking the customer for that value. 175 

COMPUTE_SETTLEMENT_AMOUNT Derive a monetary quantity that no single retrieved record contains. 248 

DECLARE_INFORMATION_UNAVAILABLE Close an information request by declaring that the re-quested datum cannot be obtained from available records and tools, and name why. 13 

DECLINE_OUT_OF_SCOPE_REQUEST Refuse a request because it lies outside what the agent is permitted or able to do, returning responsibility for it to the customer. 38 

ELICIT_GOAL_SELECTION Name mutually exclusive service goals and ask the cus-tomer to choose one before any goal has been prepared as an operation. 15 

EXECUTE_AUTHORIZED_MUTATION Use an agent tool event to write an authorized change to an order, reservation, or account profile. Endpoint and mutation object are occurrence attributes, not separate CPAs. 368 

OFFER_ALTERNATIVE_COURSES After the requested route is found infeasible, propose admissible alternatives and put the choice to the customer. 60 

PRESENT_VARIANT_OPTIONS Externalize the admissible option space so that the cus-tomer can choose within it. 97 

REQUEST_IDENTITY_CREDENTIAL Ask the customer for a value by which their account can be located; the customer’s reply is contextual evidence, not part of the action. 399 

RESOLVE_CUSTOMER_IDENTITY Submit supplied identifying values to the account direc-tory and obtain an account identifier. 268 

RESOLVE_REQUEST_REFERENT Bind an informal customer description to the concrete record entity that it denotes. 285 

RETRIEVE_ACCOUNT_PROFILE Fetch the account record carrying addresses, payment instruments, and the order index. 241 

RETRIEVE_ORDER_RECORD Obtain order records from the customer’s account, using one or more agent tool events when jointly needed. 293 

RETRIEVE_PRODUCT_CATALOG_INDEX Fetch the catalogue-wide product/category index so a product named only in words can be located as an identi-fier. 16 

RETRIEVE_PRODUCT_VARIANT_SET Obtain one or more products’ variant space and prices. 184 

SCREEN_CANDIDATE_SATISFACTION Issue a satisfied/not-satisfied verdict about whether a re-trieved candidate set contains something meeting the cus-tomer’s constraints. 81 

SCREEN_ROUTE_ADMISSIBILITY Issue a permit/block verdict on a requested operation, grounded in the target record’s own state. 152 

SELECT_VARIANT_MEETING_CONSTRAINTS Name the single variant that satisfies the customer’s stated criteria. 119 

SEQUENCE_MUTATION_STEPS State an order over already specified operations on the same artifact when a known constraint makes the order material. 12 

SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT Put a pending mutation to the customer and obtain what it still needs to advance: a value, choice, ratification, or authorization to execute. 499 18 Label Operational definition n

SURVEY_ORDER_PORTFOLIO Present the customer’s orders as a set with statuses before a single order has been bound as the target. 75 

TRANSFER_TO_HUMAN_AGENT Hand the unresolvable remainder of the episode to a hu-man agent and release control. 16 

## D.1 Dictionary-wide interpretation rules 

All entries are matched through the four fields in Eq. 5: proximal goal, principal output, procedural state transition, and action-defining preconditions. The following are explicitly non-diagnostic for CPA identity: tool endpoint, identifier channel, record source, scenario, mutation object, wording, and phase. For example, different mutation endpoints remain EXECUTE_AUTHORIZED_MUTATION when their procedural function is the same; a catalogue index and a variant set remain different because their goals and outputs differ. The library also carries two cross-cutting safeguards. First, policy-rule clauses are contextual evidence, not independent CPA occurrences. Second, SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT is deliberately an observation-level merge of conceptual parameter elicitation and consent/ratification when the needed intermediate selection state is not observable. It must not be read as a claim that those latent activities are identical. This documented breadth is why its definition contains multiple permitted input forms and why the R6 audit treats it as a dedicated stability check. 

# E Retrospective validation and outstanding experiments 

These analyses were added after the original freeze. They use the original outputs and do not revise v1.0. Human validity, finer semantic annotation, downstream utility, and model/domain replication are proposed follow-up studies, with no results imputed for them. 

## E.1 Per-label evidence and disagreement cases                                                                                                                                                             

> Table 7: All 24 labels: R6 counts per context, matched multiplicity ak, agreement A(k), distinct R6 traces Tk, and production matches Nprod . A dash means no R6 observations, not perfect agreement. Label C1 C2 akA(k)TkNprod
> ACKNOWLEDGE_MUTATION_COMMIT 42 42 42 1.000 30 267
> ANSWER_CUSTOMER_QUERY 8881.000 8129
> BIND_PARAMETER_FROM_RECORD 27 22 20 0.816 26 175
> COMPUTE_SETTLEMENT_AMOUNT 19 19 18 0.947 16 248
> DECLARE_INFORMATION_UNAVAILABLE 2221.000 213
> DECLINE_OUT_OF_SCOPE_REQUEST 6650.833 538
> ELICIT_GOAL_SELECTION 1111.000 115
> EXECUTE_AUTHORIZED_MUTATION 55 55 55 1.000 30 368
> OFFER_ALTERNATIVE_COURSES 7771.000 560
> PRESENT_VARIANT_OPTIONS 6661.000 697
> REQUEST_IDENTITY_CREDENTIAL 51 51 51 1.000 31 399
> RESOLVE_CUSTOMER_IDENTITY 34 34 34 1.000 32 268
> RESOLVE_REQUEST_REFERENT 32 29 29 0.951 24 285
> RETRIEVE_ACCOUNT_PROFILE 33 33 33 1.000 32 241
> RETRIEVE_ORDER_RECORD 39 39 39 1.000 32 293
> RETRIEVE_PRODUCT_CATALOG_INDEX 1111.000 116
> RETRIEVE_PRODUCT_VARIANT_SET 20 20 20 1.000 18 184
> SCREEN_CANDIDATE_SATISFACTION 7771.000 781
> SCREEN_ROUTE_ADMISSIBILITY 20 19 19 0.974 18 152
> SELECT_VARIANT_MEETING_CONSTRAINTS 12 12 12 1.000 11 119
> SEQUENCE_MUTATION_STEPS 000—012
> SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT 72 72 72 1.000 32 499
> SURVEY_ORDER_PORTFOLIO 4540.889 575
> TRANSFER_TO_HUMAN_AGENT 1111.000 116

Counts in Table 7 refer to occurrence multiplicities at trace–anchor–label keys, not unique label strings. The 23-label macro mean is 0.974. The three single-occurrence entries each occur in only one trajectory; their perfect scores are 19 244 / 244  

> expected non-sealed trajectories completed
> 4,058
> occurrence records
> mean 16.63 / trajectory
> 4,050 MATCH 99.80%
> exact v1.0 library label
> 8 diagnostics
> 5 A BSTAIN + 3 P ROPOSE NEW
> library remains unchanged
> 24 / 24 labels
> exercised; all QA checks pass
> 20 sealed evaluation traces
> unopened and absent from the corpus
> held out

Figure 5: Production accounting under frozen v1.0. All 244 expected, non-sealed trajectories completed. The 20 sealed evaluation trajectories were not opened. Diagnostic records did not modify the frozen library. Table 5: Production checks and their evidential scope. 

Observed result Interpretation 244/244 non-sealed trajectories completed; 4,058 records Completeness of the planned production pass. 4,050 M ATCH EXISTING ; 5 A BSTAIN ; 3 P ROPOSE NEW 

diagnostics Frozen-library accounting; the diagnostics remain visible for future versioning. All 24 frozen labels occur The production pass exercises every dictionary entry, including low-frequency procedures. Parser, vocabulary, ID, action/context, uniqueness, or-dering, and sequence-field checks pass Mechanical conformance to the frozen occurrence contract. 245 occurrences contain interleaved non-agent events; 487 events moved to context Normalization preserves agent-only action lists without splitting or collapsing an occurrence. 20 sealed trajectories absent and unopened The declared evaluation boundary is preserved. 

not precise estimates. Production counts show exposure, not accuracy, and do not fill the missing R6 evidence for 

SEQUENCE_MUTATION_STEPS .The 18 unmatched occurrences lie at 16 anchors in 12 traces. We retain the two residual label multisets after subtracting exact matches, rather than forcing extra occurrences into a one-to-one confusion matrix. A discrepancy can be an extra action, a missing action, a different label, or a shifted anchor. Neither context is designated as correct. Three examples expose the questions requiring adjudication: • At T101-0, event 12, C1 has an unmatched SCREEN_ROUTE_ADMISSIBILITY and C2 an unmatched DECLINE_ OUT_OF_SCOPE_REQUEST . The message explains limits on changing a product type while asking for modification details. Is this an operation-class refusal or a route-admissibility verdict? • At T113-2, event 20, C1 additionally records BIND_PARAMETER_FROM_RECORD when the agent names the original payment method in a cancellation confirmation. C2 does not. Does that clause separately bind a value or restate an already bound value? • In T60-3, C1 has an additional COMPUTE_SETTLEMENT_AMOUNT at event 10 and C2 at event 12. Both messages state price differences. Aggregate label totals conceal this disagreement about which event first realizes the action. These are disagreement diagnoses, not adjudicated errors. The analysis artifact retains all disputed anchors and their visible messages. The additional evidence-reference comparison uses the same 499/491 rows, with keys (t, h, ℓ, set( x)) .Matching is by multiset intersection, giving 395 matches, 104 C1-only rows, and 96 C2-only rows. Adding the stored span endpoint leaves these counts unchanged. Context list ordering and duplication do not change a reference set; repeated occurrence records still count separately. 20 E.2 What the granularity comparison measures 

For a deterministic many-to-one map f on labels, define n(r) 

> thg

= P  

> k:f(k)= g

n(r)

> thk

. Since 

min 

(X

> k

xk, X

> k

yk

)

≥ X

> k

min {xk, y k}, (13) coarsening cannot decrease aggregate overlap when anchors and occurrences are held fixed. In the one-label case, 

Af = Fmult exactly. Higher agreement after merging is therefore not independent evidence for the merger. Our eight-family mapping groups identity requests/resolution; record and catalog retrieval; referent resolution, portfolio survey, and parameter binding; screening, constrained selection, out-of-scope refusal, and mutation ordering; goal selection and mutation-input solicitation; mutation execution; acknowledgment, answers, amounts, unavailability, alternatives, and variant presentation; and human handoff. The analysis artifact enumerates the map. It is an illustrative post-hoc coarsening, not a validated ontology. Its agreement is 0.986, compared with 0.982 for 24 labels and 0.986 for one label. It eliminates two same-anchor cross-label residual pairs, leaving the multiplicity discrepancy. A substantive fine-grained comparison requires new independent coding. One proposed 27-entry candidate replaces 

SOLICIT_MUTATION_INPUT with missing-value elicitation, choice among options, ratification of a proposed value, and final execution authorization. Definitions must specify observable distinctions and retain abstention where the distinctions are unsupported. Separate procedural outputs may still yield co-anchored occurrences. This candidate has not been applied here. A future study should compare 8, 24, and 27 entries on the same task-disjoint traces, report multiplicity and per-label stability, and test whether the extra distinctions improve diagnosis of authorization or parameter-binding failures. Revising a codebook after inspecting evaluation disagreements would require a new evaluation sample. 

## E.3 Native trace and deterministic-rule comparisons             

> Representation Records Fmult Label overlap Native agent events (one per event) 426 0.765/0.772 —Endpoint rule (one per call) 251 0.493/0.499 0.493/0.499 Endpoint rule (group repeated retrievals) 186 0.540/0.547 0.540/0.547

Table 8: Exploratory reconstruction baselines on R6. Paired scores compare each baseline separately with C1/C2. Label overlap uses the same multiset formula as A; these LLM references are not gold annotations. The native baseline retains event types rather than predicting CPA labels. The native baseline includes all assistant-message and tool-call events except the initial greeting, including later courtesy messages. The endpoint map sends user-ID lookups to identity resolution, user/order-detail tools to their retrieval labels, product/item-detail tools to variant-set retrieval, product-type listing to catalog-index retrieval, the calculator to settlement computation, mutation endpoints to authorized mutation execution, and the handoff endpoint to human transfer. The word “authorized” in that mapped label does not verify consent: the rule examines only the endpoint. There are 251 raw tool calls. Grouping consecutive retrievals leaves 186 rule occurrences, of which 185 match each context. On tool anchors alone, one-call and grouped-rule overlap are 0.849 and 0.997. The grouped rule’s precision against each full annotation is 0.995, while coverage is only 0.371/0.377 because it emits no conversational actions. These numbers identify an additional annotation burden; they do not establish its utility. A downstream test should compare native traces alone, native traces plus deterministic labels, and native traces plus CPA, using the same complete source evidence. Include a development-tuned message-cue rule baseline as well as endpoint rules. Freeze rules, failure definitions, and time budgets before held-out scoring; use task-disjoint development/evaluation groups, counterbalance conditions, and prevent evaluators from seeing the same case in multiple conditions. Independent adjudicators must establish failure presence and location from raw evidence before viewing the experimental labels. Report diagnosis precision/recall, localization, evidence sufficiency, time per case, and annotation cost, with task-cluster uncertainty. No downstream measurements are available in this paper. 21 E.4 Independent human reference: prepared, not executed 

Two annotators should receive complete event-indexed traces and the frozen dictionary, with neither LLM suggestions nor each other’s labels. This avoids turning agreement with a suggestion into an apparent independent reference (Schroeder et al., 2025). First enumerate actions and their observable outputs, then assign labels and cite supporting events. Include all agent events: reviewing only the union of model outputs cannot reveal shared omissions. Distinguish valid reference IDs, sufficient visible support, and support available only in a full payload absent from the historical rendering. The prepared retrospective pilot uses the 32 R6 traces and a separate targeted production supplement for rare labels and diagnostic decisions. Selecting with existing LLM labels can miss rare actions omitted by the model; the supplement cannot estimate prevalence or corpus-wide accuracy. Preserve both independent human passes before adjudication by a third person. Adjudication separates omissions, unsupported additions, label errors, multiplicity/anchor errors, and insufficient evidence, and may leave cases unresolved. Model majority voting is not a substitute. Report human–human agreement before adjudication and model–reference action and label precision/recall afterwards, alongside evidence sufficiency and unresolved cases. Analyze the R6 pilot and targeted supplement separately. A confirmatory accuracy claim requires a newly reserved task-disjoint sample, sized for a declared precision before its labels are seen. 

## E.5 Replication and transfer: preparations are not results 

A new run must record the exact provider/model identifier or explicitly mark it unavailable, harness version, decoding parameters, context limit, prompt and dictionary hashes, rendering policy, task IDs, retry history, and output hashes. Use at least three fresh runs per model on the same locked retail sample, with at least two model systems; report within-model and between-model overlap separately. The historical model change is confounded with shard assignment and cannot serve as a cross-model experiment. For a second domain, distinguish applying the retail library unchanged from rebuilding a domain-specific library with the CPA protocol. The former tests coverage and must retain proposals and abstentions; the latter tests the construction procedure and needs its own development and untouched audit tasks. Existing local airline/telecom materials are preparation artifacts, not completed validation evidence for this paper. Missing decoding settings and unavailable deployment identifiers must remain explicit. 

# F Artifacts, provenance, and reproducibility limits 

The accompanying source package places the numerical reproduction bundle under anc/ . It contains hash-checked historical inputs, both original R6 response pairs, normalized occurrences, production responses and rendered packs, the codebook, and source manifests. It does not require a live model service or access to the original Git repository. Historical repository paths and commit identifiers are provenance metadata. Two historical scripts have machine-specific raw-file paths replaced by a neutral filename in the public bundle; its manifest retains both original and packaged hashes and records these redactions. Annotation data are unchanged. Table 9: Paths within the accompanying analysis bundle (under anc/ ). Artifact Role 

analysis/INPUT_MANIFEST.json Packaged hashes and provenance of 67 historical inputs; original hashes retained for the two path-redacted scripts. 

analysis/inputs/library/ Frozen v1.0 dictionary, manifest, and freeze report. 

analysis/inputs/development/ Archived candidate libraries, schema, and consolidation report. 

analysis/inputs/R1/ through analysis/inp uts/R6/ 

Sampling records; available audit provenance; original R6 packs, responses, occurrences, and freeze decision. 

analysis/inputs/production/ All 16 production response files and rendered packs, se-quence corpus, QA summary, and shard manifest. 22 Artifact Role 

analysis/analyze.py Historical reconstruction, original overlap scores, stratifi-cation, coarsening, baselines, and task-cluster intervals. 

analysis/query_demo.py Co-anchored action query and exact context-reference overlap. 

analysis/outputs/ Machine-readable numerical results, mappings, disagree-ment examples, and query results. 

analysis/test_analysis.py and analysis/t est_reference_overlap.py 

Metric boundary, reference-set, and multiplicity checks. 

## F.1 Offline reproduction 

From the bundle root, with Python 3.8 or later: 

> python3 -B analysis/analyze.py python3 -B analysis/query_demo.py python3 -B -m unittest discover -s analysis -p ’test_*.py’

The first command verifies the archived input hashes, reparses the raw R6 responses and checks their equality to all 990 archived rows, reconstructs all 4,058 production records, and checks trace separation and reserve exclusion. It emits the historical analyses and generated tables. The second emits the matching trace/event IDs for the query in Section 5.5, computes the reference-set comparisons, and generates their manuscript macros. The third checks seven metric boundary cases. Generated tables can then be compared with the copies under the manuscript’s generated/ 

directory. The bundle recomputes the reported R6 and production numbers, but does not replay all historical development runs. The prepared human pilot has no collected responses and supplies no validation evidence. 

## F.2 Evidence and configuration limits 

The production sequence file contains action-event IDs but omits context-event lists; these references require the retained raw responses and source packs. The sequence file alone is therefore not a complete evidence archive. Historical R6 arguments and tool results were clipped to 110 characters. Full payloads in any future human study must be distinguished from the information available to the historical annotators. The R6 provenance manifest declares two isolated Claude Code annotation contexts, claude-opus-5 , and a one-million-token context window, with no cross-visibility. Temperature and top-p were not pinned. Production used one annotation stream with a configuration change: shards s03–s04 used the earlier configuration, while s01–s02 and s05–s16 used the later one. These are historical declarations, not independently verified deployment snapshots; the change is confounded with shard assignment. It is not a controlled cross-model experiment. The exact benchmark revision and trace-generating agent configuration remain unrecovered; benchmark citations do not resolve that provenance. Identical new annotations and trajectory regeneration are not established. No human reference, cross-domain result, or utility measurement is included. Reuse these annotations as inspectable model outputs, not ground truth. 23